A long time ago, in a galaxy far, far away…
1. SPACE
The boundless heavens serve as a backdrop for the MAIN TITLE. A
ROLL-UP crawls into infinity.
The Rebellion is doomed. Spies loyal to the Old Republic have
reported several new armored space stations under construction by
the Empire.
A desperate plan to attack the Dreaded Imperial capitol of Had
Abbadon and destroy the Death Stars before they are completed
has been put into effect.
Rebel commandos, led by Princess Leia, have made their way into
the very heart of the Galactic Empire: as the first step toward the final
battle for freedom….
Pan down to reveal the planet HAD ABBADON, capitol of the
Galactic Empire. The gray planet’s surface is completely covered with
cities and is shrouded in a sickly brown haze. Orbiting the polluted
planet is a small, green, moon, a sparkling contrast to the foreboding
sphere beyond.
A large IMPERIAL TRANSPORT glides into frame. WE follow it, as it
rockets toward the Imperial capitol. Four small TIE FIGHTERS escort
the larger craft. The web-like structures of two Death Stars under
construction loom in the distance as the transport approaches.
Resting to one side of the half completed space station is Darth
Vader’s super STAR DESTROYER and several ships of the Imperial
fleet. One of the TIE Fighters escorting the Imperial transport begins
to wobble and drops back with its engine sputtering.
2. INT. TIE FIGHTER A rebel pilot (WEDGE) struggles with his
controls and starts to panic. He speaks into his com-link.
WEDGE Commander….I ah….have a problem here! My ship is losing
power, I’m not going to make it.
TRANSPORT COMMANDER (female) Take it easy Wedge, switch to
your auxiliary converters.
WEDGE I have, it’s no good.
3. INT. IMPERIAL TRANSPORT A scruffy old REBEL PILOT turns to
his young CO-PILOT who is frantically working the controls.
CO-PILOT He’s out of range, we’ve lost him.
The Pilot quickly checks his controls, then turns to the Commander
sitting above and behind them.
PILOT We’re too close to Vader’s fleet to go back for him.
The Commander leans into the light and is revealed to be PRINCESS
LEIA. All eyes on the bridge are on her. She thinks for a moment,
then makes a decision.
LEIA Reverse engines.
PILOT Someone is going to start asking questions, and we may not
have the answers.
LEIA I have to risk it. They’ll discover us soon enough, if Wedge is
taken in for repairs.
Out of the cockpit window is Vader’s Star Destroyer.
4. INT. BRIDGE VADER’S STAR DESTROYER The bridge of the
Star Destroyer is a beehive of activity. A long row of controllers study
their tracking screens as the ominous sounds of Lord Vader’s boots
echo throughout the bridge. The controllers watch in fear as the dark
Lord’s feet pass above them. One of the controllers goes back to his
work and spots the transport on his screen. A red light starts flashing
and a muted buzzer sounds. The controller speaks into his com-link.
CONTROLLER Transport TYDIRIUM, you’re moving out of your flight
path. Correct immediately.
VOICE OF REBEL PILOT One of our escort fighters has lost power.
We’re maneuvering for a tow.
An Imperial Officer moves in behind the Controller and switches off
the alarm and light.
OFFICER Check their security clearance.
IMPERIAL CONTROLLER Transport Tydirium, identify and confirm
your security status.
5. INT. IMPERIAL TRANSPORT COCKPIT The Pilot and Co-Pilot
look back to Leia with worried looks on their faces as the Imperial
Controller repeats his request.
LEIA Now we find out if that security code was worth the price we
paid. Send the transmission.
The Pilot flips several switches and a high-speed transmission is
heard. The Co-Pilot is very nervous.
CO-PILOT What if they changed the code? We don’t know how old
this one is.
PILOT Just relax son, we’re not in trouble yet. Activate the tractor
beam and lock onto Wedge’s fighter.
The Co-Pilot goes back to his controller. Leia and the Pilot exchange
concerned looks.
CO-PILOT We have Wedge in tow, sir.
PILOT Reset your course for the sanctuary moon. Go around Vader’s
fleet the long way. We shouldn’t get too close.
An Imperial voice on the com-link breaks in.
IMPERIAL CONTROLLER Transport Tydirium, bring your craft closer
to the fleet for a visual check.
A new sense of foreboding sweeps through the cockpit.
PILOT They’re on to us…
CO-PILOT The code’s no good. Abort the mission.
LEIA No! We have to play this one out. Answer them.
PILOT Request acknowledged. We’re swinging closer.
The old Pilot switches off the com-link and looks over to the Co-Pilot
who is scared to death, then over to Leia who is lost in thought.
PILOT It smells like a trap. Are you sure we shouldn’t abort the
mission?
LEIA No…but our fleet will surely be cut to ribbons if we aren’t set up
on the moon sanctuary before they arrive. You’d better warn the men.
6. INT. HOLD IMPERIAL TRANSPORT The hold of the transport is
filled with Rebel Commandos and massive equipment. A red light
goes on as the Pilot’s voice comes over the com-link.
PILOT We are approaching Lord Vader’s fleet for a visual security
check. Be on your best Imperial behavior.
The troops start picking up their weapons, and quickly stow any non-
Imperial equipment.
7. INT. COCKPIT IMPERIAL TRANSPORT Out the cockpit window
Vader’s super Star Destroyer grows larger as the Rebels approach it.
CO-PILOT We’re within range of their visual scanners.
PILOT Don’t go in any closer. Watch for approaching fighters.
The old Pilot turns and sees that Leia is overcome with melancholy.
Her head is resting in her hands. The old Pilot moves over to the
young Princess to comfort her. She looks up at him and wipes the
tears from her eyes, as he puts his hand on her shoulder.
PILOT It’s all right. We’ve been in tougher scrapes than this. We’ll get
through.
LEIA I know…. I just wish Han were here.
PILOT These are the moments that we all miss Captain Solo….
She forces a weak little smile.
PILOT (continued) A small bet. Commander Skywalker will have him
back in time for the main attack.
LEIA Lando’s signal only meant they’ve found Han alive, not how
difficult it will be to free him.
The com-link cracks to life, causing everyone to jump. The Pilot
rushes back to his controls.
IMPERIAL VOICE What is your cargo, Transport Tydirium?
8. INT. BRIDGE VADER’S SUPER STAR DESTROYER The Imperial
Officer leans closer to the view screen; which flashes a series of x-ray
images of the interior of the transport. The controller repeats his
question.
IMPERIAL CONTROLLER Do you copy? What is your cargo?
PILOT VOICE Equipment and construction personnel for the
sanctuary moon…
The officer is called over to another view screen.
SECOND CONTROLLER The shuttle is approaching. High speed on
course 973.
OFFICER Alert all Commands. I’ll inform Lord Vader….
He turns back to the first controller.
OFFICER (continued) Record your scan of the transport, we’ll go
over it later.
IMPERIAL CONTROLLER Transport Tydirium….
9. INT. COCKPIT IMPERIAL TRANSPORT Tension is high in the
cockpit of the transport as they await their fate.
IMPERIAL CONTROLLER (continued) …. Stand by.
They look out the cockpit window at Vader’s super Star Destroyer
which looms before them. Suddenly the control panel lights up and
alarms go off.
CO-PILOT Imperial fighter…. moving up fast behind us!
Leia speaks into the com-link.
LEIA All units prepare for a boarding party.
PILOT Stand by to activate shields.
LEIA Wait, it’s not slowing.
PILOT And it’s not firing either.
CO-PILOT It’s going to pass us.
The com-link sparks to life.
Outside the cockpit window an Imperial shuttle roars past them
heading for Vader’s ship.
LEIA Those are royal markings on that shuttle. Somebody important
is in a big hurry to see Lord Vader.
IMPERIAL CONTROLLER Transport Tydirium you are cleared to
proceed to the moon sanctuary.
There is a big sigh of relief from Leia and the Pilots.
CO-PILOT We made it. The code works.
PILOT I still don’t like it. Change to course 339. We’ll go the long way
around.
Leia and the Pilots watch the shuttle recede in the distance.
CO-PILOT Nothing can stop us now!
10. EXT. SPACE – TRANSPORT AND SHUTTLE The huge Imperial
Transport veers away from Vader’s super Star Destroyer and heads
for the distant sanctuary moon. The Imperial shuttle continues
towards Vader’s ship until it finally disappears into the main docking
bay on top of the huge Star Destroyer.
11. INT. MAIN BAY Super Star Destroyer As the shuttle settles onto
the deck of the docking bay, Imperial ground crews rush about
securing the craft. The bay is filled with an impressive formation of
Stormtroopers, Guards, Star Captains, and Special Elite Units. As
one, the thousands of troops snap to attention, and heads turn to the
entrance of the bay. The door slides open revealing the dark Lord of
the Sith, DARTH VADER. He walks past the troops toward the shuttle
craft. ADMIRAL PIETT and several Star Captains are with him. The
Admiral turns to Vader.
PIETT Never before have I heard of the GRAND MOFF leaving the
planet to greet someone. You are greatly respected, my Lord.
VADER Or greatly feared. The disgusting little bureaucrat is
attempting to lay a trap for me.
PIETT He’s a fool to think that you would not know.
VADER The Emperor’s counsel is no fool. He is very clever and quite
dangerous.
Vader and Piett stop before the Imperial shuttle. The hatch to the
shuttle swings down and a colorful platoon of the Imperial Guards
lines up outside the ramp. They salute as a thin, evil-looking man
descends from the shuttle. He is the GRAND MOFF JERJERROD.
Vader salutes him, but Admiral Piett and all the Star Captains kneel
before him. An effete covey of dignitaries descend the ramp, acting
as if they have never been on a Starship before.
VADER You honor me with your presence, My Lord.
JERJERROD Yes, I know. (looking around) You may rise. All this
fuss just for me, an impressive display I must say. (sniffs the air) Yes,
well the Emperor sends you his blessing….
VADER But he still refuses to answer my transmissions.
JERJERROD I’m afraid he’s quite too busy.
VADER Then why was I ordered to return?
JERJERROD He feels your prolonged stay in the outer systems has
not agreed with you.
Vader is very angry and it takes all the control he can muster to
contain himself. Jerjerrod starts for the hanger entrance. Vader
follows.
VADER Don’t you toy with me.
JERJERROD All right then…. the Emperor is disturbed with your
failure to deal with young Skywalker and he has decided to handle
the matter personally. You will supervise the construction of the Battle
Stations; a task he feels will be much less demanding.
VADER But, I have all but turned him to the dark side of the force.
JERJERROD The Emperor does not share your optimistic appraisal
of the situation. Skywalker is more powerful now, than before your
feeble attempts to convert him.
12. INT. BRIDGE STAR DESTROYER Vader, Jerjerrod and company
walk onto the vast Star Destroyer bridge.
VADER He can’t do this. The boy is mine!
JERJERROD That seems to be part of the problem. It would appear
that you still have some feelings for your troublesome offspring.
VADER The only feeling I have for him is hatred.
JERJERROD Then you should be thankful the Emperor has taken
such an interest in him. The Emperor will turn Skywalker to the dark
side, and then destroy the Rebellion in one swift stroke.
VADER The Rebellion will not be easily crushed, and my son will not
be easily turned.
JERJERROD The Emperor will succeed, where you have failed. You
are weak Lord Vader, more machine than man. The Emperor’s plan
has already been put into motion. The entire rebel force is on its way
to us, for one last, hopeless confrontation, so I suggest you prepare
your fleet.
VADER My son would not be so foolish as to fall into such a trap.
JERJERROD Ahh but, he is not with them. Your son is on his home
planet of Tatooine. He will soon be in our hands, and the Emperor will
have his way with him.
VADER Get off my bridge!
JERJERROD As you wish…
The Grand Moff turns and walks off the bridge followed by the
dignitaries. The Admiral and his Captains go back to their duties.
Vader stand alone on the bridge looking out across the vast sea of
stars.
VADER (to himself) Luke, beware, you are the Emperor’s prey now.
DISSOLVE TO
13. INT. TATOOINE INN
["In the rough draft Luke is asleep and struggling with thoughts of
Vader and the dark side. Yoda and Ben are also present in the
dream, and Luke berates Ben for not telling him that Vader is his
father. Yoda explains that he'll soon be joining Ben in the
Netherworld, and therefore he'll become stronger and will be better
able to help Luke. Vader's voice reappears, and Luke awakens." -L.
Bouzerau, explanation from Star Wars The Annotated Screenplays
page 241.]
Luke snaps awake from a sound sleep, his head still ringing with
Vader’s words. It takes a moment for him to focus on his
surroundings. He is in a small rundown, tavern. Two vile, little dirty
Jawas; ATETU and TWEETU, stare at him from across the room.
They shake their cloak-covered heads and go back to cooking an
odorous stew.
The howling wind outside blows the door open with a loud crash.
Luke reaches for his pistol, the Jawas hide. Out of the dust cloud
emerge two familiar shapes, SEE THREEPIO and ARTOO DETOO.
Luke relaxes as the angry Jawas come out of hiding, scolding the
robots for not closing the door. Atetu waddles to the door and strains
against the wind to close it.
THREEPIO Master Luke, I beg you not to send us out in weather like
that again…it’s unbearable out there.
Artoo whistles his agreement.
LUKE Were you able to get everything I asked for?
THREEPIO An impossible task, but yes we have all of it….Artoo?
Artoo beeps and one of his tiny arms pokes out of its hatch carrying a
small box. The door to the hovel bangs open again giving everyone a
start, including R-2 who drops the box of parts. Out of the cloud of
dust comes LANDO and CHEWIE. Atetu is very angry and starts
yelling at Lando and Chewie. The little Jawa storms over to Chewie
and screams at the Wookiee (in his gibberish language), shaking his
fist. Chewie stares at him blankly, then shrugs and closes the door.
Atetu continues to vent his anger on Luke, then waddles back to his
cooking.
LANDO Next time I’ll try to get us better accommodations, but
trustworthy innkeepers are hard to come by around here.
Chewie barks and puts several small parts before Luke.
LUKE What did you find out?
LANDO He survived the unfreezing process but I couldn’t get any
report on his condition; but we’re going to have to hurry, the
execution has been set for tomorrow.
Threepio picks up a small micro chip.
THREEPIO Master Luke, I beg your pardon, but how can these micro
parts help rescue Capt. Solo?
Luke holds up an odd looking box.
LUKE When it’s finished it will be our ticket into the palace. But first,
we must send this JABBA the HUTT a message. That’s where you
two can help.
THREEPIO At your service.
Tweetu calls out and points to the bowls of steaming food on the
table. Chewie barks and heads for the table followed by Lando.
LANDO Better get something to eat, Luke, we may not get another
chance.
LUKE You go ahead, I still have some things to do first. (motions to
R-2) Come over here, Artoo.
Threepio follows Chewie to the table and asks Tweetu something.
The creature answers and goes to a cupboard. Threepio sits at the
table. On the far side of the room Luke stands before Artoo and
recites a message. A beam of light from Artoo passes over him as he
speaks. Tweetu brings Threepio an oil can, and Threepio starts oiling
his joints.
THREEPIO A few more trips outside and I’ll surely short circuit.
Chewie barks and Lando passes him some food.
LANDO It’s a miracle that Han survived the unfreezing process. I just
hope he’s still in one piece.
Chewie barks his agreement. Luke and R-2 come over to the others.
R-2 begins to beep at 3PO.
THREEPIO We have to leave?!? What are you talking about? I’m not
going out in that storm again!
LUKE 3PO, I need you to go with him to the palace.
THREEPIO Palace?!?
LUKE He’s going to need your help.
THREEPIO Help!?!
Artoo beeps at Threepio again.
THREEPIO All right, I’m coming. I’m coming. I was afraid of this.
Master Luke, are you sure…
LUKE Threepio…. I’m depending on you.
THREEPIO Yes, Master Luke.
Artoo and Threepio leave the Inn as the wind howls madly outside.
Luke grabs some food off of the table and goes back to his work.
LANDO What makes you think those droids will ever get in to see
Jabba – let alone deliver the message.
LUKE Greed. It’s Jabba’s weakness. With this phony spice extractor
and his greed, we’ll make contact with Han as soon as I finish. You
and Chewie are going to have to make the next visit to the palace.
LANDO You mean just walk right in?? They’ll kill us.
LUKE Not when you present Jabba with this little gem, and tell him
we have a hundred more just like it. You’ll be all right.
LANDO But we don’t have another hundred just like it. I think this
plan of yours leaves a lot to be desired.
LUKE Listen, Lando, you know we couldn’t get Han out of that
stronghold even if we had an army with us. Our only hope is to get
Jabba to take him out of there, for us….
LANDO Then what?
LUKE Then you leave the rest to me.
Lando shakes his head in disbelief.
LANDO I sure hope you know what you’re doing.
Chewie concurs, as Luke goes back to working on his gift.
14. EXT. ROAD TO PALACE – GATE The wind has died down
somewhat, but a fair amount of sand still flows around the two droids
as they struggle along the path to the ominous palace of Jabba the
Hutt. R-2 whistles a worried sigh.
THREEPIO Why are droids always given the dirty work?….
Sometimes I wonder why we put up with it all.
Artoo beeps his agreement as they reach the main gate to the
Palace. It is closed. Threepio looks around for some kind of signaling
device, then he timidly knocks on the giant iron door. A small hatch in
the middle of the door snaps open and a spidery mechanical arm,
with a large electronic eyeball on the end, pops out and inspects the
two droids.
STRANGE VOICE Tee chuta what zudd!
Threepio points to R-2, then to himself.
THREEPIO Artoo Detoowha bo Seethreeiowha ey toota odd mischka
Jabba du Hutt.
The eye looks from one robot to the other, then zips back into the
door, and the hatch slams shut. Artoo beeps his concern.
THREEPIO I don’t think they’re going to let us in, Artoo, maybe we
should go.
Artoo agrees, and the droids turn to leave. Suddenly, the massive
door starts to rise with an ominous thumping and horrific metallic
screech. The robots turn back toward an endless black cavity which
has been revealed beyond the door. The robots look at one another,
afraid to go inside.
STRANGE VOICE Nudd chaa!
Artoo starts forward into the black void.
THREEPIO Artoo, maybe we should reconsider the…. Artoo wait!
The bronze droid rushes after his stubby companion. The noisy door
begins to lower behind them.
15. INT. JABBA’S PALACE – HALLWAY The door slams shut with a
loud crash that echoes throughout the dark passageway. The
frightened robots are met by two giant green scaly GUARDS, who fall
in behind them. Artoo beeps a weak question. Threepio quickly
glances around and looks at the two lumbering lizard-like guards
behind him, then turns back to Artoo. The guard grunts an order.
THREEPIO You don’t want to know. Just deliver Master Luke’s
message and get us out of here quick.
Walking toward them out of the darkness is a wizened old man
dressed in a dark cloak and tall hat. This is the High Beeser of Hutt,
BIB FORTUNA.
BIB I am Bib Fortuna, the High Beeser of Hutt. What brings you to our
domain?
THREEPIO We bring a message to your master, Jabba the Hutt.
Artoo lets out a series of quick beeps.
THREEPIO ….and a gift. (thinks a moment then to R-2) Gift, what
gift?
BIB Jabba cannot be disturbed, I will take the gift for him.
He holds out his hand toward R-2 and the tiny droid backs up a bit,
letting out an array of squeaks and tones.
THREEPIO Artoo give it to him!
Artoo defiantly whistles a blue streak. 3PO turns to the Beeser.
THREEPIO He says our master’s instructions are to give it only to
Jabba the Hutt himself.
Bib thinks about this for a moment.
THREEPIO I’m terribly sorry. I’m afraid he’s ever so stubborn about
these things.
BIB Very well then, follow me.
They troop in behind the Grand Beeser and follow him into the
darkness.
THREEPIO Artoo, I have a very bad feeling about this.
16. INT. MAIN PALACE CHAMBER The main chamber in the palace
is filled with the most grotesque, and vile CREATURES ever
conceived in the universe. Artoo and Threepio stand very small in the
doorway to the dimly lit chamber.
THREEPIO We’re doomed!
Light shafts partially illuminate the drunken courtiers as Bib Fortuna
crosses the room to the leader of this disgusting crowd: JABBA THE
HUTT. This Godfather of the galactic crime world is a repulsively fat
sultan-like monster with a maniacal grin. Bib whispers something in
this slobbering degenerate’s ear. Jabba laughs, and motions to the
two terrified droids. He speaks in a strange language to the Grand
Beeser.
JABBA (in Huttese) This gift had better be worth it.
The robots reluctantly come forward to stand before this looseskinned
villain.
JABBA (in Huttese) Speak!
THREEPIO (in English) The message Artoo, the message.
Artoo whistles and a beam of light projects from his domed head,
creating a HOLOGRAM of Luke on the floor. The image grows to
over ten feet tall, and the young Jedi towers over the space
gangsters. Threepio translates.
LUKE Greetings, Exalted One. Allow me to introduce myself. I am
Luke Skywalker, Jedi Knight and friend of the one called Solo. I wish
an audience to bargain for his life…. (all laugh) I have objects of great
value from Durell System (the crowd mumbles) and as a token of my
goodwill, I present to you a gift, these two droids….
Threepio is startled by this announcement.
THREEPIO (in English) What?!? What did he say?
LUKE Both are hard working and will serve you well…I will soon send
my agents for your reply.
THREEPIO (in English) Oh no, this can’t be. Artoo you must have
played the wrong tape….
JABBA (laughs in Huttese) There will be no bargain, but I will take the
droids with pleasure.
He motions for the guards to take the droids away.
BIB (in Huttese) Bargain rather than fight? He’s no Jedi, he’s an
imposter.
Jabba concurs and the loathsome courtiers laugh at his response.
17. DUNGEON HALLWAY Artoo and Threepio are led down a dark
and dank dungeon passageway lined with holding cells. The cries of
unspeakable creatures bounce off the cold stone walls, and
occasionally a horrible looking arm, or tentacle grabs through the
bars at the two hapless droids.
THREEPIO What could have come over Master Luke? Is it something
we did? He never expressed to me any unhappiness with our work.
They stop at a door at the end of the hall.
18. INT. BOILER ROOM The door slides open revealing a room filled
with steam and noisy machinery. The menacing guard motions them
into the boiler room where they are met by a tall, thin, human-like
ROBOT named U-8d8 (Eue-Atedeate). The guard grunts to the droid,
who is sitting behind a high desk.
ATEDEATE Ah, new acquisitions. I am Eue Atedeate, chief of Cyborg
Operations. You’re a protocol droid, aren’t you?
THREEPIO I am See Threepio, Human….
ATEDEATE Yes or no will do.
THREEPIO Well, yes.
ATEDEATE How many languages do you speak?
THREEPIO I am fluent in over six million forms of communication,
and can….
ATEDEATE Wonderful! We have been without an interpreter since
the Master got angry and disintegrated out last protocol droid.
THREEPIO Disintegrated??
Atedeate turns to the thick-headed guard.
ATEDEATE This one will be quite useful, fit him with a restraining
bolt, then take him back to the main audience chamber.
THREEPIO No wait, Artoo don’t leave me….
The guard pushes Threepio out of the room. Artoo lets out a plaintive
cry, as the door closes. He then beeps a blue streak to the operations
droid.
ATEDEATE So you’d rather not get stuck cleaning the prison cells,
huh. Oh, you’re good at dispensing beverages, are you?
He throws some hoses and mop-like extensions at Artoo.
ATEDEATE (Continued) You’ll do clean up! Follow me.
Disappointed, Artoo clutches the apparatus and falls in behind the
taller droid.
19. MAIN PALACE CHAMBER The court of Jabba the Hutt is a
drunken, raucous assembly. TWO GUARDS bring in a weathered old
STAR CAPTAIN, who stands angrily before the slimy rogue.
CAPTAIN Listen Jabba, I’m tired of waiting….
JABBA (in Huttese) Bring forth my new protocol droid.
Everyone near him looks around, and finally Threepio is shoved
forward. Jabba motions to the golden droid to come nearer.
JABBA (in Huttese) What is he saying?
THREEPIO (in Huttese) He is tired of waiting, Your Excellency.
Jabba jabbers away at Threepio with a chuckle, the interpreter droid
turns to the Star Captain.
THREEPIO (in English) His Excellency finds your impatience irritating
and has decided not to pay you at all….
CAPTAIN (puts hand on gun) You tell that swollen scumbag he’d
better cough up my fee or they’ll be picking his hide out of every
crack in this room.
Threepio looks at Jabba, then back to the Star Captain, then back to
Jabba. He hesitates to translate this unpleasant message.
THREEPIO (in Huttese) Your Grandness, he feels he would not be
happy with that arrangement.
Jabba sits with growing anger and 3PO backs away, then the
gangster starts to laugh.
JABBA Boscka!
The Star Captain goes for his gun, but before he can draw, a trap
door in the floor springs open and swallows him up. The door snaps
shut. A rumble is heard, then muffled growls and a hideous scream.
Jabba and the court laugh hysterically. Threepio looks up and is
terrified to see his old friend Chewbacca, and Lando entering the
room followed by two guards.
THREEPIO (in English) Oh no!
Lando and the giant Wookiee stand over the trap door as they greet
Jabba the Hutt. Chewie barks, Threepio translates.
THREEPIO (in Huttese) He greets you and wishes you good health,
Your Excellency….
Jabba waves at Chewie, and chuckles as he speaks to the Wookiee.
THREEPIO (in English) His Excellency is surprised to see you here,
Chewbacca, and quite frankly so am I, you’re in grave danger.
LANDO We bring you a gift, Exalted One, and more to follow if you
accept Skywalker’s bargain.
Threepio repeats this to his gluttonous master as a Jawa scurries
over to Lando, takes the device Luke has constructed and delivers it
to Jabba, who inspects it.
JABBA (in Huttese) A Durellian spice extractor…. Ask him how
many?
THREEPIO (in English) He would like to know if you have any more,
you are standing over a trap door.
LANDO Two hundred, a rare load, and a more than adequate ransom
for Captain Solo.
Threepio repeats this to Jabba, who laughs and rubs his hands in
glee.
JABBA (in Huttese) Agreed.
THREEPIO (in English) He has agreed to your ….
JABBA (in Huttese) Seize them!
Jabba signals his guards, who instantly grab Chewie and Lando
securing their hands behind them.
JABBA (in Huttese) Now you will join your beloved Captain, and I will
demand twice the ransom.
THREEPIO We’re doomed.
LANDO But, we must tell him your reply! If we don’t return, Skywalker
will not deliver the goods.
Threepio repeats this to Jabba, who answers with a boisterous laugh.
JABBA (in Huttese) If he fails to arrive, you will fail to survive.
THREEPIO He doesn’t care.
LANDO What?! You can’t do this! Jabba, think of all the wealth you’re
throwing away….
Lando and the Wookiee are led away amid laughter and jeers.
Jabba’s goblet is refilled and he commands the entertainment to
begin. Several GIRLS emerge from the crowd and start to dance.
20. DUNGEON HALLWAY AND CELL Lando and Chewie are led
down the row of cells, passing Artoo pushing a broom. Chewie barks
at his little friend and the stubby droid starts whistling madly. One of
the guards pulls a controller from his belt and zaps Artoo with it. The
little robot jumps and lets out a scream. A cell door opens and the two
prisoners are thrown inside. The door bangs closed as Chewie smells
someone else is in the cell with them. The giant Wookiee lets out a
crazy yell and races toward a shadowed figure in the corner. He
grabs the figure and gives him a big hug that carries them into the
light revealing Chewie’s old partner, a bearded HAN SOLO.
HAN All right, all right, wait a second, you’re crushing me!
Chewie lets go and Han scratches the Wookiee’s chest and sees
Lando.
HAN Lando! I’m gonna kill you.
He starts to take a swing at his old friend when Chewie comes
between them holding Han back. The Wookiee growls and yips an
explanation. Han relaxes.
HAN You rescued Chewie and Leia?
LANDO …. and now I’m here to rescue you….
HAN Well, you’re doing great so far.
LANDO Luke’s plan seems to have backfired.
HAN Luke? He’s here too?
LANDO He will be soon enough…. He’s gonna try to pay off Jabba
with some phony spice extractor that he doesn’t have.
HAN Is he crazy?
Chewie barks yes!
HAN That kid can’t even take care of himself, let alone rescue us.
LANDO He seems awfully sure of himself.
21. EXT. ROAD TO PALACE GATE Luke, dressed in a black shirt
and pants, walks down the dusty road toward the palace gate. He
carries no pistol, and no lasersword. He stands before the gate and
the little eye gives him the once over.
LUKE Open the gate, I am expected….
The gate creaks open and Luke enters.
22. INT. JABBA’S PALACE HALLWAY Two giant guards fall in
behind Luke as he strides down the long hallway. Bib Fortuna
appears out of the darkness and greets the young Jedi. Several other
guards surround them in the darkness.
BIB His Excellency holds your agents as well as Capt. Solo. You
must bring double the ransom you offered, and then Jabba will
bargain.
LUKE (in Huttese) I would speak to Jabba, now!
BIB He will not see you. First you must bring the ransom.
Luke looks around at the guards and then back to Bib.
LUKE The ransom is unimportant.
BIB The ransom is unimportant.
LUKE You will take me to Jabba, now!
BIB I will take you to Jabba, now.
LUKE The guards will stay here.
BIB (in Huttese) Guards, stay here.
LUKE You will show me the way.
BIB I will show you the way.
Bib turns and Luke follows him into the darkness leaving the
somewhat puzzled guards behind scratching their heads.
23. MAIN PALACE CHAMBER The loud and boisterous court of
Jabba the Hutt suddenly goes quiet as Luke and Bib Fortuna enter
the large chamber. Bib leans over to Jabba’s ear and whispers
something. Jabba becomes upset and Bib backs away as the
gangster yells.
JABBA (in Huttese) Throw him out. He must bring the extractors first.
The guards start for Luke, and he glares at them and they stop.
Threepio edges his way through the crowds to see Luke.
THREEPIO Master Luke!
LUKE I must be allowed to speak, now.
BIB He must be allowed to speak now.
He returns and whispers this to Jabba, who becomes furious and
clobbers Bib, sending him crashing to the floor.
JABBA (in Huttese) You weak-minded alien fool! He’s using an old
Jedi mind trick.
LUKE (in Huttese) You will bring Capt. Solo to me.
JABBA (in Huttese) Young Jedi, I am not affected by Human thought.
I’m afraid your mind powers will not work with me, boy. I have killed
many Jedi Knights in my time….
Threepio notices that Luke is standing over the trap door and
frantically motions him to move to one side.
THREEPIO Master Luke. He’s going to kill you, move away…. you’re
standing on a….
A MONSTER turns around and growls at Threepio and he quickly
shuts up and backs away.
JABBA I shall enjoy watching you die….
Luke reaches out his hand, and a pistol jumps out of one of the
guards’ holsters, flying magically into Luke’s hand. The bewildered
guard grabs for it.
JABBA Boscka!
The floor suddenly drops away, sending Luke and the guard into the
pit. Jabba laughs and the court joins in.
24. INT. RANCOR PIT Luke manages to get to his feet. The guard is
yelling for help. The young Jedi looks up to see a crowd gathering
around the edge of the pit and a metal gate slams closed above him.
A second door in the side of the pit starts to rumble open. The guard
panics and starts to scream. Luke calmly looks around for a means to
escape. Out of the side passage emerges a giant brown fanged
RANCOR. The guard finds his pistol and starts firing at the hideous
beast; which only seems to make it more furious, as it comes at the
two men.
In a sudden burst of energy, Luke jumps twenty feet straight up and
grabs on to the overhead grate. The crowd is at first startled, and
then starts booing at Luke, as he makes his way hand over hand to
the side wall, where he wedges himself into a corner. As the guard
continues to fire at the monster, it picks up the unfortunate man and
pops him into its slavering jaws. A few screams, and the guard has
been swallowed. The audience’s cheers turn to jeers as Luke
struggles to maintain his grip. His foot slips and he dangles helplessly
over the howling beast.
25. INT. MAIN CHAMBER – PALACE Two filthy little Jawas run over
to the grate and mash Luke’s fingers with the butts of their laser rifles.
Luke struggles to hang on. He is unable to brace himself against the
wall.
26. INT. RANCOR PIT The Rancor paws at Luke, but is unable to
reach him. Finally, the Jawas are successful and Luke drops from the
grate. The young Jedi lands in the eye of the monster, then tumbles
to the floor of the pit. The Rancor bellows in pain, stamping around in
circles holding his face. Luke runs behind the raging creature and
scurries into the holding tunnel. Unfortunately, it’s a dead end, and he
turns to see the monster approaching him. Luke notices a door
mechanism about half way down the wall. He picks up a stone and
hurtles it at the controls. A split second before the Rancor reaches
Luke, the overhead door comes crashing down on the beast’s head,
squashing it like a sledgehammer on an egg – Luke tries to catch his
breath.
27. INT. MAIN CHAMBER – PALACE A startled gasp is heard from
the stunned court as all heads turn to Jabba, who is turning red with
anger.
JABBA (in Huttese) Get him out of there…. and bring Solo and his
friends! They will all suffer for this outrage.
The Rancor KEEPERS are the first ones into the pit followed by
several guards. The keepers check the dead Rancor. One of the
keepers breaks down and starts sobbing. He is comforted by the
other keepers.
28. INT. DUNGEON CELL Han, Chewie and Lando crowd around
little R2-D2 who is projecting a small hologram of Luke.
LUKE ….when the time is right.
HAN I don’t have much hope for this, but it’s the only chance we’ve
got.
LANDO Don’t worry, Luke will come through.
R-2 beeps as noises are heard at the cell door. R-2 quickly sticks out
his vacuum cleaner extension. The others assume casual positions
around the cell before the contingent of guards enters and yanks the
prisoners out leaving little R-2 alone to finish his cleaning.
29. MAIN PALACE CHAMBER Han, Chewie, and Lando are shoved
into the main chamber, where they are forced to kneel before Jabba
the Hutt. They are surprised to see Threepio standing behind the
grotesque gangster.
JABBA (in Huttese) Han, my boy, I had intended for your final
performance to be at the festival…. I must admit I’m surprised at the
company you keep….
THREEPIO He’s moving up your execution. He is quite upset at
Master Luke.
LANDO I told you! He’s got the old geezer scared to death.
HAN All he’s managed to do is speed up our funeral.
LANDO (to Jabba) Our friend is powerful. He will destroy you.
Threepio repeats this to Jabba, who laughs.
JABBA (in Huttese) Powerful, yes, but I doubt if he can destroy us.
There is a commotion at the far end of the room, and Luke is
escorted through the crowd, and placed with the others. He is slightly
beat up from his ordeal with the Rancor. He looks sheepishly at his
friends.
HAN Good try old buddy. Stupid, but at least you tried.
JABBA (in Huttese) I have a special treat for you, and your friends,
Jedi. From this one you will not escape. Take them to the SARLACC
NEST.
A loud cheer rises from the crowd, as they excitedly start to leave the
room. Threepio’s interpretation of Jabba’s speech is drowned out by
the noise. Chewie and the others look around somewhat worried.
30. EXT. TATOOINE DUNE SEA The sandstorm has subsided
somewhat, as a huge SAIL BARGE cruises across the vast dune sea
about six feet above the sand surface. This is a large version of
Luke’s old anti-gravity landspeeder. Darting in and out among the
large craft are several smaller SKIFFS; which hold about twenty
people.
31. INT. MAIN SAIL BARGE Jabba the Hutt rides like a sultan in the
massive anti-gravity ship. His entire retinue is with him, drinking and
eating and having a great time. Threepio stands between two horrible
CREATURES, translating their conversation. Both monsters speak in
strange tongues. One of the beasts gets angry at something the other
has said, and punches him in the face. Threepio takes this as a sign
to leave; which he does in haste, bumping into a smaller droid serving
drinks, spilling them all over the place. The stubby droid lets out an
angry series of beeps and whistles. Threepio finally recognizes the
robot.
THREEPIO Artoo! What are you doing here?
Artoo beeps a quick reply.
THREEPIO Of course, I see you’re serving drinks! But, this place is
dangerous, they’re going to execute Master Luke, and if we’re not
careful, us too!
Artoo whistles a sing-song response.
THREEPIO I wish I had your confidence….
A slimy beast bellows at Artoo, holding up his goblet. R-2 beeps a
good-bye and scoots over to the thirsty creature.
32. INT. SKIFF Han, Luke, Chewie and Lando sit in the small antigravity
craft surrounded by armed guards.
HAN So much for your plan to get us out of the palace. Now we’re
really in for it.
LANDO The odds don’t look too good.
LUKE Don’t worry, I’ll get us out of this.
HAN (sarcastic) Oh I’m sure.
LUKE Hey! I’ve learned a few things since I saw you last. Trust me
old buddy.
HAN Pardon me, I forgot you’ve become a Jedi.
Han gives a skeptical glance at Lando, who shrugs, then at Chewie,
who barks. Luke closes his eyes and relaxes.
33. EXT. DUNE SEA – SARLACC PIT The hovering barge stops on
the side of a large sand pit. The smaller skiffs circle the rim of the
deep cone of sand. The craft carrying Luke, Han, Lando and Chewie
moves over the center of the pit and hovers. The prisoners look down
into the pit and see a disgusting mucus lined hole at the vortex of
sand. Around the edge of the cavity are thousands of needle sharp
teeth and four thin, ten foot long feelers, that sweep across the sand
looking for victims.
34. INT. SKIFF Chewie growls at the monster in the pit. Han and
Lando look at Luke with worried looks. The guards order the
prisoners to stand, and they are lined up in the center of the small
craft. A long gangplank is hoisted to the side of the hovering skiff.
35. INT. MAIN SAIL BARGE The crowd is getting drunk and
boisterous. A tall thin BRUTE pours the remains of his drink on
Artoo’s head and demands a refill, which he is given by the little droid
with a subservient beep. Jabba laughs hysterically as two beautiful
young GIRLS toss small fruits into his mouth. Bib Fortuna settles
down next to the Exalted One and motions to the skiff hovering over
the pit.
BIB We are ready, Your Excellency.
Jabba raises his arm, and the motley array of intergalactic pirates
falls silent. Threepio is standing right behind him and he motions to
the robot.
JABBA Protocol droid!
Threepio leans forward, right next to Jabba’s face and the slobbering
villain mumbles something to him. Threepio steps forward to the rail
overlooking the pit and the small skiff.
THREEPIO His Excellency hopes you will die honorably, but should
any of you wish to beg for mercy, the Exalted One will now listen to
your pleas.
The prisoners look at each other and Han steps forward.
HAN You can tell that slimy, worm-ridden filth, he will get no such
pleasure from us.
Threepio repeats this in Huttese to Jabba, who only laughs, and gives
the thumbs down sign.
JABBA Put them in!
36. INT. SKIFF Two guards grab Luke and roughly lead him to the
waiting gangplank. They release his magno-bonds, and force him to
walk out over the pit by poking him with long electronic poles. A guard
timidly moves out on the gangplank to push Luke out to the end. The
young Jedi turns to face his companions and then salutes them.
LUKE I guess this could have ended better. See yah, old buddy.
The guard prods him again and he jumps off the gangplank to the
cheers of the bloodthirsty spectators. Before anyone realizes what
happened, Luke has used his Jedi training to spin around, grab onto
the end of the plank, and catapult himself up onto the deck with a
double-back flip; which causes the startled guard to lose his balance
and fall into the pit.
Luke reaches out his hand and a blaster is pulled from the holster of
one of the guards and magically flips into his hand. Now things are
happening very fast. The hapless guard in the pit is eaten as a
second guard draws his pistol, but is blasted by Luke before he can
fire. The rest of the guards go for their weapons, and chaos follows.
Hands bound, Han, Chewie and Lando dive for cover. Luke grabs a
bonding release device and activates it. The prisoners’ restraining
bonds fall away.
The guards fire at Luke as he races to the control panel of the craft,
but the guns are knocked out of their hands by Han and Lando.
Chewie grabs one of the guards and tosses him overboard into the
waiting jaws of the sarlacc. A fist fight ensues between prisoners and
guards. Two guards knock Luke away from the skiff controls and the
hover craft begins to drift. Using his Jedi skills, Luke knocks the two
guards overboard, but one manages to grab onto a rail and dangles
over the pit screaming. Luke is hit from behind by another guard and
knocked to the deck.
37. INT. MAIN SAIL BARGE Jabba and the spectators are startled at
the turn of events. Some of the creatures begin to laugh and yell at
the combatants. Jabba is amused. Bib is worried.
BIB (in Huttese) Should I stop it, Your Excellency?
JABBA No wait, I find it amusing.
Guards take up positions along the gunnel of the barge as the fistfight
continues to rage on the small skiff. Threepio has backed away from
the main group of spectators, hoping not to be noticed. He is startled
by Artoo, who comes up from behind, and lets out a loud hoot.
Threepio jumps and turns around.
THREEPIO Artoo! Don’t do that! What is it?
Artoo lets out with a series of whistles and beeps, then takes off down
the deck.
THREEPIO You need my help? Wait, I don’t understand, what plan?
Artoo?
Threepio follows his stubby companion into the hold of the barge.
Three guards fight with Luke, and Han, Lando and Chewie fight the
remaining three guards. The Captain of the Guard is beckoned over
to Jabba by Bib.
JABBA Shoot them.
CAPTAIN Your Excellency, six of my guards are down there. It will
difficult to get off a clear shot.
JABBA Shoot them all!
CAPTAIN (distressed) Yes, Your Excellency.
The Captain bows, and commands his men to fire at the skiff.
38. INT. SKIFF Laserbolts wizz past the combatants. The guard
fighting with Chewie is hit by a blast, and the Wookiee is knocked to
the deck wounded. Another blast hits the controls of the skiff,
knocking out one of the stabilizers, causing the small craft to lurch
violently to one side thirty degrees, throwing Han, Luke and many of
the guards into the Sarlacc pit. Two of the guards, Lando, and the
wounded Wookiee manage to hang on to the lopsided craft.
Laserbolts continue to bounce off the bottom of the skiff protecting
those still on board the craft. A guard who was hanging on the side
during the fight suddenly finds himself on top of the craft. He is able
to stand and wave frantically at the guards on the barge to stop firing.
The second guard struggles to pull himself up to the control panel.
Lando who is hanging on the top rail works his way along hand over
hand trying to get to the controls before the guard. Chewie is caught
between two seats and bellows in pain.
39. EXT. SARLACC Han struggles to climb out of the pit, but only
slides further down toward the fearsome sloth. He slides past Luke
who is lying very still, spread eagle in the sand, facing the hole at the
bottom.
LUKE Han, lie still, don’t fight it.
HAN It’s easy for you to say.
Luke reaches out and grabs onto Han as he slides past him. Han’s
momentum is stopped, both of them are pulled closer to the horrible
mouth. The guards struggle frantically, and are quickly eaten.
40. INT. CONTROL BRIDGE OF SAIL BARGE Artoo and Threepio
race into the small control room of the barge whistling and yelling.
THREEPIO (in Huttese) We’re under attack! They’re going to kill His
Excellency. Help him, hurry!
The BARGE CAPTAIN and his two PILOTS rush out of the bridge
and Artoo quickly closes the door behind them and locks it with a loud
click.
THREEPIO This is a great plan, now we’re trapped.
Artoo beeps a rude response and goes to the control panel and starts
pushing a long row of red buttons. An alarm suddenly goes off.
THREEPIO You’ve just opened all the power connectors. You’re
going to blow us up!
Banging begins at the locked door as the crew responds to the
alarms.
41. INT. SKIFF Lando just barely makes it to the controls before the
guard flips the switch that rights the ship, throwing the other guard
standing on its side, into the pit. Lando and the guard fight over the
controls causing the ship to lurch. Chewie slides dangerously close to
the open hatch, but with great pain manages to hold on.
42. INT. MAIN SAIL BARGE The guards who are firing at the skiff are
ordered away by their Captain.
CAPTAIN (in Huttese) To the control bridge, quickly!
Jabba remains calm, but those around him begin to panic and some
run. The muffled alarm sounds can be heard from the control bridge
as the huge barge begins to shudder.
43. SARLACC PIT Lando finally knocks the last guard into the pit and
takes control of the craft. Han and Luke slide closer to the jaws. One
of the sloth’s feelers wraps itself around Han’s leg and starts to pull
both warriors into its deadly mouth. Lando maneuvers the skiff down
toward his two friends and lowers a tow cable. Luke and Han try to
grab the cable, but only slip closer to death. Lando moves the ship
around for another try. Chewie lies unconscious in the back of the
craft.
44. INT. COMMAND BRIDGE The beating sounds are intense and
the door starts to give way. Artoo and 3PO stand on the control panel
in front of a window. Artoo beeps at Threepio as he hesitates at the
window.
THREEPIO I can’t do it….
Artoo beeps and bumps 3PO through the window. The golden robot
shrieks as he falls to the sand below. R-2 jumps after him, just as the
door explodes and several guards burst into the control bridge.
CAPTAIN Shut down those converters!
The guards race to the control panel.
45. SARLACC PIT – BARGE Han is almost touching the needle
sharp teeth as Lando moves the cable within reach a second time.
Luke grabs on to the cable and the two warriors are pulled from the
pit as the cable is slowly retracted.
Bib moves closer to his master and whispers into his ear.
BIB Perhaps the deck gun would be helpful, Exalted One.
JABBA What are those alarms?
BIB Not to worry, everything is under control.
JABBA Fire the deck guns!
The guards rush to several large deck guns mounted near the bow of
the barge.
Luke finally makes it to the deck of the skiff and helps Han on board.
A blast from the barge deck gun rocks the small craft almost knocking
Han overboard. He dangles from the side rail and is almost knocked
loose by a second blast which causes the ship to lean to one side.
Lando struggles to right the craft and get them out of there.
LANDO We’re losing power, another direct hit and we’re finished.
The guards are zeroed in on the skiff when the Captain and his men
run out of the control bridge yelling.
CAPTAIN Abandon ship! Abandon ship.
Before the guards can react, the entire barge blows up in a
spectacular fire works display; which jostles the small skiff quite
violently, throwing both Luke and Lando to the deck and almost
causing Han to drop.
The flaming barge drops into the sand pit, throwing Jabba, Bib and
company into the waiting jaws of the sloth. Lando gains control of the
skiff and stabilizes the craft as Luke pulls Han on board.
46. EXT. DUNE SEA In the distance the burning wreckage of the
barge explodes a second time as a small periscope pops out of the
sand in the middle of a crater. Muffled beeps are heard and the
periscope looks around until it sees two golden feet sticking out of the
sand not far away. A large shadow moves over the droids, and a
voice is heard.
LUKE Artoo! Artoo up here.
The periscope looks up and sees the bottom of the skiff hovering
above. Luke is leaning over one side of the craft lowering a cable and
large magnet toward the sunken droid. In the skiff Han is helping
Chewie to sit up, and is applying some first aid to the Wookiee’s
wounded shoulder. The furry beast winces and growls at Han.
HAN I know it hurts. Just lay still.
Lando tries to maintain the skiff over the droids. The magnet is
attached to R-2′s head and he is slowly raised toward the craft. A
second magnet attaches to the two golden feet, and pulls Threepio
out of the sand.
THREEPIO Oh, my head!
R-2, still dangling below the skiff beeps to his companion.
THREEPIO Well, you should be sorry.
R-2 coos a sorry sigh as the skiff begins to pull away and head
across the dune sea.
47. EXT. FOREST HAD ABBADON MOON – BALL
GUN Camouflaged Land Speeders lift a large gun barrel into position
atop a huge ball shaped ion cannon. Leia and a REBEL
COMMANDER walk out of a low control bunker. The gun and control
area are in the process of being camouflaged by work crews and
other landspeeders.
CAPTAIN JODE We should have it completely covered by nightfall.
The Empire can’t possibly find us then.
LEIA When you’ve finished, keep your men inside. Wait until the
moon has made one full rotation before you target the shield
generator.
CAPTAIN JODE If that generator’s creating a shield powerful enough
to protect those Death Stars, it’s not going to be that easy to knock
out.
LEIA That’s why you have to line up precisely on the central tower.
CAPTAIN JODE But, it’s too big for one of these size guns to do any
damage….
LEIA If the shield around those Death Stars is still operational when
the fleet attacks, they won’t have a chance. WE have to knock it out.
I’m going back to the ship, to signal the fleet that we’re ready.
CAPTAIN JODE As soon as we have the target lined up, I’ll contact
you.
Leia gets into a camouflaged armored landspeeder, and takes off into
the dense forest. Captain Jode shakes his head, then goes back to
his work.
48. INT. DARTH VADER’S STAR DESTROYER BRIDGE Vader
stands on the bridge of his Star Destroyer looking out across the half
completed Death Stars. Admiral Piett approaches him.
PIETT Yes, my Lord?
VADER Where is the Grand Moff Jerjerrod?
PIETT He is in the private communication chamber.
VADER He is speaking with the Emperor?
PIETT I’m not sure, all surveillance in the room has been cut off….
and his coded transmission is undecipherable. He’s using a special
code, I have come across nothing like it before.
VADER Have the extra patrols arrived on the sanctuary moon?
PIETT Yes my Lord, GENERAL VEERS has taken command himself.
VADER Inform me when the Grand Moff has finished his
communication.
Vader turns his attention back to the Death Stars. Piett leaves.
49. INT. VADER’S STAR DESTROYER – COMMUNICATION
CHAMBER The Grand Moff Jerjerrod kneels before a huge
holographic image of the Emperor.
THE EMPEROR Take extra precautions. He is far stronger than his
father.
JERJERROD Yes, Master. We will have the boy quite soon.
THE EMPEROR Vader is to know nothing of this. Young Skywalker
must be brought directly to me. Do you understand?
JERJERROD Yes Master.
THE EMPEROR …. and watch Lord Vader closely. He is powerful
and not to be underestimated.
JERJERROD Yes Master. He will be quite distracted. The Rebel
attack is proceeding as you planned, and Lord Vader already
suspects their presence. He has sent several units to the sanctuary
moon.
THE EMPEROR Good. Everything is falling into place.
JERJERROD It is as you have foreseen, my Master.
The Grand Moff bows low, and [the] supreme Emperor passes a
hand over the crouched Jerjerrod and fades away.
50. FOREST HAD ABBADON MOON A squad of nimble one-man
Imperial rocket bikes speed around the giant trees of the medieval
forest. The ominous crunching sounds of huge metallic feet are a
counterpoint to the high-pitched scream of the Rocket Bikes. Finally,
out of the mist the monstrous shape of a two-legged Imperial walker
appears. The sinister machine slowly makes its way through the
dense foliage as the tiny Scout Bikes dart to and fro.
51. INT. IMPERIAL WALKER Two Imperial pilots sit at the controls in
front of the main viewing port. General Veers stands to one side,
watching a radar scope. One of the pilots turns toward the general.
PILOT Sir, we’re approaching what appears to be a downed
transport.
VEERS Send the scouts ahead….
PILOT I’ve picked up a small grouping of life forms.
VEERS Check the registry.
PILOT Sir, our scouts are under attack!
52. EXT. FOREST LANDING SITE – TRANSPORT A small battle is
raging around the Imperial Transport as the giant walker moves into
the clearing. A few powerful blasts from the deadly machine, and the
fighting stops.
53. EXT. HANGAR – HUTT SPACEPORT – SANDSTORM –
DAY Lando leads Luke, Han, Chewie and the robots through a raging
sandstorm toward the entrance to an underground starship hangar.
LANDO It’s not much further.
HAN I just hope you parked her out of this storm.
Chewie barks to his old friend that he picked the spot.
HAN Good work Chewie.
They make it to the shelter of the hangar entrance. Lando and
Chewie trundle down the flight of stairs, as Han stops Luke just inside
the doorway.
HAN Luke….
LUKE I’d better wait for the droids.
HAN Listen Luke. I’m not much good at these things, but I just want
to say thanks. We’re even…. I’m sorry I doubted you….You have
learned a lot….
Luke laughs, and pats his old friend on the back.
LUKE Just a few tricks….
HAN Luke….Ah about Leia….I
LUKE I know everything. She loves you Han. My feelings for her are
different than yours. I’m not going to get in your way.
Han gives Luke a big hug as Threepio stumbles up to the entryway.
He looks a little worse for wear.
THREEPIO Master Luke, Master Luke! They’ve taken Artoo….
LUKE What? Where?
THREEPIO (pointing) Back there…. two men, grabbed him. They’ll
strip him for parts.
Han and Luke dash out of the entryway and into the full blast of the
sandstorm.
54. EXT. ALLEYWAY HUTT SPACEPORT – SANDSTORM.
They run down an alleyway looking for Artoo. The sand blows
furiously around them.
LUKE This way.
HAN I can’t see a thing…wait over there.
Han points at two cloaked figures disappearing down a narrow
passageway and starts after them. Luke follows. As Han rounds the
corner, he is struck over the head by a powerful blow from behind. He
hits the ground with a thud revealing little Artoo, helplessly dangling
from a strap tied halfway up the wall. One of the figures puts a hand
over the little droid’s mouth.
1′ST FIGURE Get ready, here he comes.
Luke rounds the corner, sees Han, Artoo, and is instantly surrounded
by a cage that suddenly appears around him.
OFFICER Get his weapon.
Luke looks around and sees that he is trapped. He touches the bars
of his cage, they’re electrified. His blaster is drawn out of his holster,
and crashes against the magnetic bars.
OFFICER Hurry, get him aboard the ship.
55. EXT. HANGAR – HUTT SPACEPORT SANDSTORM
Chewie and Lando join Threepio at the entrance to the Hangar.
LANDO What’s going on?
THREEPIO They went to rescue Artoo. He was…
Chewie barks and points at Artoo and Han struggling through the
sandstorm. Chewie and Lando go out to help Han.
HAN They’ve taken Luke…
The loud roar of a starship taking off can be heard overhead. They all
look up as it passes and fades in the distance.
HAN Quick, we’ve got to go after them.
56. HUTT SPACEPORT – DAY
The Millenium Falcon roars off its’ landing pad and quickly disappears
into the sandstorm.
57. INT. COCKPIT – FALCON
Han and Chewie are at the controls and Lando and the robots sit in
the back. Chewie barks and flips a switch.
HAN Yeah, that’s them all right. We can outrun them easy.
LANDO Unless…
Out the cockpit window, the Imperial shuttle is very close when
suddenly it rockets away at a terrific rate of speed, and disappears.
LANDO (continued) … they go to lightspeed.
Chewie pushes forward on the throttle and the Falcon slows. Han
bangs his fist on the controls in anger.
HAN Blast it!
LANDO Chewie, set your coordinates for the fleet…
The Falcon rockets away into the stars.
58. HAD ABBADON MOON – IMPERIAL TRANSPORT
A couple of Rebel troops mill around the Imperial transport as two
speeders enter the clearing and stop. Several more troops exit the
huge spacecraft. Leia and CAPT. KAUN climb out of the speeders.
Leia turns to one of the Rebel troops.
LEIA Put them inside for the night.
They walk toward the transport.
LEIA Now all we have to do is sit and wait. You know, it’s strange, but
I don’t recognize any of these men.
CAPTAIN KAUN That’s funny, neither do I.
A sudden realization crosses over their faces. They grab for their
weapons, and run back toward the speeder. The Rebel troops start to
fire at them and they dive behind one of the speeders. Out of the
forest rise four Imperial scouts on rocket bikes. Leia blasts one of
them and the bike crashes to the ground. The second speeder
explodes, knocking two more of the rocket bikes to the ground. Kaun
runs over to the bike and takes off, quickly followed by Leia on the
second bike. The troops fire at them as they escape. General Veers
comes out of the hold of the transport.
VEERS After them!
Four more scouts race from behind the transport on the rocket bikes.
The General turns to one of his officers.
VEERS Contact the fleet and inform Lord Vader we’ve got two on the
run, and are following them back to the others.
59. HAD ABBADON MOON – FOREST
Leia and Captain Kaun dangerously maneuver their tiny rocket bikes
between the mammoth trees at speeds of two hundred miles per
hour. They are closely followed by four other scouts, who
occasionally fire at them. Explosions echo throughout the forest as
laser bolts rip into the trees. The two Rebels ride out over a ridge and
slowly float down to the forest below. The Imperial scouts follow in a
hair-raising chase that bounces over hills, through narrow gullies, and
in between trees. One of the Imperial scouts loses control and
explodes against a tree.
Captain Kaun has dropped a little behind Leia and blasted by one of
the troops, causing him to crash. Now Leia is alone, being chased by
three Imperial scouts. She rounds a narrow bend and a rope net
suddenly shoots up in front of her, catching her bike and sending it
head over heels. Leia lands unconscious on some soft leaves. The
three scouts race around the bend and aren’t so lucky. The first bike
hits the net and the other two plow into it causing a big explosion,
which engulfs the three scouts.
Leia remains unconscious as the explosion fades away.
60. EXT. REBEL FLEET
The Falcon arrives at the Rebel fleet and docks with one of the huge
Star Cruisers.
61. INT. MAIN BAY REBEL HEADQUARTERS – NIGHT
Han, Chewie, Lando and the robots enter the main bay of the Rebel
Cruiser and are greeted by Capt. New and several of his officers. Han
looks around for Leia.
CAPT. NEW You made it back just in time.
LANDO In time for what?
CAPT. NEW All units have been called together for one massive
attack against Had Abbadon. Where is Commander Skywalker?
HAN Did I hear you right? Had Abbadon, the Imperial Capitol?
Whose crazy idea was that? Where is she anyway? Where’s Leia?
LANDO Luke has been captured, we came to get help to find him.
CAPT. NEW We’ve already started the staging procedures for the
attack. The General will want you with us.
HAN Now wait a second. Where is Leia?
Capt. New and his officer exchange worried looks.
CAPT. NEW We’d better get you to the General for a briefing.
62. WAR ROOM – REBEL HEADQUARTERS – NIGHT
The large war room is a hurricane of activity. Commanders stand in
small groups before large briefing screens as control officer rush
about exchanging information and getting things ready. Standing
before a large electronic table is GENERAL MADINE, Captain New,
Han, Lando, Chewie and the robots. A planet and its satellites are
shown on the table display and as the General talks about a subject,
it lights up or an arrow points to it.
GENERAL MADINE … And using a captured Imperial transport, she
has succeeded in establishing an ion cannon on the moon sanctuary
of Had Abbadon.
LANDO … Which could knock out the shield generator, making those
Death Stars vulnerable to a cruiser attack.
Han shakes his head at this crazy plan. Chewie barks.
HAN I think this whole plan is nuts. Lando, you’re a tactics expert,
what are their chances?
LANDO It’s been a long time since I’ve played this game. The odds
aren’t too good…
HAN You’re telling me!
LANDO … But if the fleet could be brought out of hyperspace on this
side of the moon, it could just work. Now the timing will have to be
very accurate…
HAN Great, that’s all they need to hear. General Madine, meet
General Calrissian. You can stay here and play soldier if you want,
I’m leaving. Come on, Chewie.
LANDO Han, wait! Where are you going?
HAN I’m going to that sanctuary moon, and I’m going to get Leia out
of there, then we’re going to find Luke.
MADINE She’ll never go with you.
LANDO You’ll never find him that way.
HAN Wanna bet! Vader’s got him.
Han turns and walks away, followed by Chewie. Lando turns to the
General and shakes his head.
LANDO And he thinks this plan is crazy…he’ll never get near that
moon.
Artoo and Threepio race after Han and Chewie as they leave the
room.
THREEPIO Hey! Wait for us!
63. EXT. REBEL FLEET – SPACE
The Falcon roars off of the landing platform into space.
64. INT. FALCON COCKPIT
Han and Chewie operate the controls of the modified freighter. The
giant Wookiee barks a long-winded question.
HAN Of course I have a plan… If I can just calculate the light speed
coordinates close enough, we should come out of hyperspace right
above the moon’s surface. We’ll have landed before they notice a
thing.
Chewie chatters an animated reply. Threepio looks at Artoo.
HAN I know, I know, one millidigit too far and we’re so much space
dust. But there’s no other way, so hang on!
Han pulls back on the lightspeed throttle and the stars streak out the
cockpit window. The Falcon zooms away into hyperspace in less than
a second.
65. HAD ABBADON MOON – FOREST
A strange little furry face with huge yellow eyes slowly comes into
focus. The creature is an EWOK, named WICKET, and he seems
somewhat puzzled as he looks at the waking Princess. Leia groans,
which frightens the stubby ball of fuzz and he stumbles backward,
falling on his tail with a loud squeak. Leia sits up and stares at the
three foot high Ewok, trying to figure out where she is and what has
happened. Her clothes are badly torn and she is fairly beat up.
The Ewok jumps up and grabs a four foot long spear which he holds
in a defensive position. Leia watches him carefully as he circles her,
poking occasionally with his sharp spear.
LEIA Hey, cut that out. Don’t be afraid little fella, I won’t hurt you.
She stands up and the Ewok quickly backs away. She walks over to
the remains of the destroyed rocket bikes and surveys the wreckage
and notices what little remains of the rope net that stopped her. She
pulls a part of the rope down and studies it.
LEIA I’m afraid you caught more than you bargained for… what a
mess.
The little Ewok grabs the net out of her hands and starts scolding her
in a funny language made up of squeaks and barks. He points at the
wreckage, then to the net, throws up his hands and marches around
in little circles, obviously upset at what Leia has done to his trap.
LEIA Calm down. My transport isn’t in such great shape either…
Leia looks around at the dense forest, then with a sigh, she sits on a
fallen log.
LEIA And to top it off, I think I’m lost.
The fuzzy little Ewok sits on a smaller log next to Leia. He puts his
head in his hands with a great sigh. Leia scratches the little creature
on the head.
LEIA Cheer up, things could be worse.
A loud snap and rustle of leaves is heard in the distance as the
Ewok’s ears perk up, and he begins to sniff the air.
LEIA What is it?
The Ewok lets out a loud screech, and starts to run, but a laser blast
explodes right in front of the little creature. Leia draws her pistol and
jumps behind the log. A second flash comes out of the foliage and
explodes in front of the log. Leia returns the fire, senses something
and turns around to see two large Imperial Stormtroopers standing
over her with their guns pointed at her head. The scout officer
reaches out his hand for her weapon.
SCOUT OFFICER I’ll take that…
She hands her pistol over to the brutish officer as he turns to the
second scout.
SCOUT OFFICER (continued) Contact General Veers and tell him
that we’ve found one of them.
Leia moves over in front of the little Ewok, and pushes him further
under the log. The second scout goes back to where his rocket bike
is hidden in the foliage. A third scout rides his back into the clearing
and dismounts. The officer pulls Leia over to the third scout and
roughly shoves her at him, then starts back to where his bike is
hidden.
The third scout takes out a pair of binders, and starts to put them on
Leia’s wrists. A shrill scream is heard on the far side of the clearing.
The scout looks over to see the officer holding Wicket, the Ewok, by
one arm. Wicket swings at the trooper in vain.
OFFICER I think we’ve found another one.
Taking advantage of the guards’ distraction, Leia brings her bound
fists straight up hard into the scout’s chin, knocking him unconscious.
She dives for her laser pistol as the scout officer drops the Ewok and
goes for his gun. Leia beats him to the draw and blasts him away.
The second guard rides into the clearing, but his bike is hit by one of
Leia’s laser blasts and is knocked end over tail. The forest is quiet
once more. Wicket pokes his furry little head up from behind the log,
still a little dazed, and mumbling about what happened. Leia comes
over to the chubby little Ewok and pulls him away into the dense
foliage.
LEIA Come on, we’ve got to get out of here.
As they run into the foliage, Wicket shrieks and tugs at Leia to follow
him.
66. SPACE – HAD ABBADON
An Imperial shuttle roars over camera and heads for the polluted
brown planet of Had Abbadon. It passes the green sanctuary moon,
the Death Stars and Vader’s fleet.
67. INT. COCKPIT – IMPERIAL SHUTTLE
Two pilots operate the shuttle as an officer sits behind them.
OFFICER Steer clear of the fleet. The Emperor doesn’t want Lord
Vader to sense the boy’s presence.
68. INT. HOLD – SHUTTLE
Luke sits in a small metallic cell inside the hold of the shuttle. His
head is in his hands.
LUKE Ben, help me…come to me, please Ben. I’m not strong enough
to face my father. Help me to resist the Dark Side of the Force. Ben,
Ben, please…
Luke looks up to see a shimmering, translucent image of Yoda
standing in the tiny cell with him. Leia is startled by the vision.
LUKE Yoda?
YODA Ben can no longer help you. His power to stay in the
netherworld has been spent. He will soon be one with the Force. His
identity lost forever.
LUKE No, help him. Bring him back…
YODA Only you can draw him back to the material world. Stop your
anger.
LUKE How, I can’t…
YODA You can’t, because that is what you think. Have you learned
nothing?
LUKE Master, I…
YODA You cannot help Obi-Wan! You cannot face your father! You
cannot resist the Dark Side! The Emperor has already won.
LUKE I’m sorry, I…
YODA Sorry will not save you…or Obi-Wan…or your father destroy.
LUKE I have no will to destroy my father…there must be some good
in him, I can feel it.
YODA Destroy you he will, as he destroyed himself…this you must
face…
LUKE I am not strong enough, I will fail.
YODA If that is the way you feel…then I must turn to another for help.
LUKE Another? Who?
YODA The Force runs strong in the Skywalker line. If you will not
destroy your father, there is only one other left who can…your sister.
LUKE Sister!!! I don’t have a sister.
YODA Strong with the Force is she; but untrained.
LUKE My sister?
YODA Taken to Alderaan by your mother, was she. Safer it was to
keep you apart.
LUKE Leia?!?
YODA Your twin sister… If you fail to destroy your father, our only
hope is she.
Luke is stunned by this bit of information, and quickly becomes lost in
thought.
69. EXT. SPACE – HAD ABBADON
The tiny shuttle rockets toward the planet of Had Abbadon.
70. INT. FALCON – COCKPIT
Han quickly works the controls of the Falcon as Chewie barks a
question.
HAN You’re right. I’ll reverse the polarity as soon as we’re out of
hyperspace. Better strap yourself in Goldenrod, this could be a little
rough.
Threepio gives Artoo a quick glance. The stubby little droid beeps a
short observation.
THREEPIO That’s all right, Artoo, we don’t need to know the odds.
HAN Here we go.
Han pulls forward on the light speed throttle. The black void out the
cockpit window begins to streak with light and then the streaks
become stars. Within a second or two, one of the stars rapidly grows
into a planet; which appears to engulf the ship. The cockpit begins to
shudder, then shake violently. Chewie barks and Artoo beeps. Han
struggles to work the controls.
HAN Chewie, we’re in the atmosphere, throw on the brake!
71. MOON ATMOSPHERE
The Millenium Falcon glows like a comet as it streaks toward the
planet surface.
72. SUPER STAR DESTROYER – BRIDGE
Lord Vader is standing before the massive windows on the bridge.
The huge rim of the moon can be seen out one side of the window,
and the spidery superstructure of a Death Star can be seen out the
other. Vader studies the streaking comet as it disappears onto the
moon surface. CAPTAIN NAFFER, in the control pit, is startled by
something on one of his readouts.
CAPTAIN NAFFER We’ve picked up a ship coming out of
hyperspace. It appears to have collided with the moon.
VADER I saw it. Pinpoint the impact sight and tell General Veers to
investigate immediately.
Vader notices Jerjerrod studying him from an alcove in the distance,
as the captain hurries to implement his orders.
73. MOON FOREST – CLEARING
The ramp lowers on the smoking Falcon, and Han, Chewie and the
robots exit the craft.
THREEPIO I don’t think I want to try that again.
Chewie barks his agreement.
HAN Come on, we’ve got no time to lose. The transport should be
over this way.
Han makes his way into the foliage, closely followed by the rest of the
group.
74. CAVE ENTRANCE – MOON FOREST
Wicket leads Leia along a narrow shaky wooden walkway, high in the
giant trees. He stops at the end of the rickety walkway; which drops
away to nothing. Far below is a clearing. On the other side of the
clearing is a mountain with a sheer rock face. The Ewok points and
Leia nods. Wicket grabs a long vine tied to the walkway. It is attached
high above them in the trees. He hands Leia the vine and she grabs
hold, he takes hold of the lower part of the vine. The little Ewok lets
out a squeak and they swing across the clearing and into the cave.
75. INT. CAVE – EWOK VILLAGE
Leia follows Wicket through a small cave that opens into a large
cavern. Along one wall of the cavern, a small village has been built
under an outcropping of rocks. They enter the village which seems to
be deserted, but Leia notices numerous little eyes peering out of the
darkened doorway.
Wicket stops before the largest hut in the small square, and calls out
something. A second Ewok, called TEEBO, comes out of the hut and
confers with Wicket. They point periodically at Leia, and then Teebo
goes back into the building. Wicket motions for Leia to follow, and
they both go into the hut.
76. INT. CHIEF’S HUT
A glowing fire dances in the middle of the Spartan, low ceilinged
room, causing a kaleidoscope of shadows on the walls. Leia sits on
the ground before Wicket and Teebo. In the darkness across the
room, a group of about ten Ewoks sit around a slightly larger grayhaired
Ewok; CHIEF CHIRPA. The rhythmic beat of a skin drum
begins as the Ewok sitting next to Chief Chirpa begins to chant. This
is LOGRAY, the medicine man of the tribe. Wicket stands and
chatters to the Chief, then sits again. The rest of the Ewoks begin to
chant as Logray approaches Leia.
The haunting chant and the bizarre surroundings have a hypnotic
effect on the Princess. The trance is broken when the medicine man
stands before her, and suddenly her hands are pinned to the ground
by Wicket and Teebo. The chanting and drums stop as Logray grabs
Leia’s head and yanks open her mouth, seemingly inspecting her
teeth. He then looks at her eyes and ears. Finally he lets go and
barks something to the assembly. The Chief replies to the medicine
man and the drums begin to beat again.
Logray takes a bowl of ugly looking brew and offers it to Leia. Wicket
and Teebo release her hands. She is a little leery about taking the
foul smelling soup. Wicket quietly says something to her. She finally
gets up the courage to taste it. It’s good, and she drinks the entire
bowl to the screeching and barking cheers of the assembly. Wicket
jumps up and hugs Leia, as do several other of the fuzzy little Ewoks.
Leia’s tension fades away amid the joyous celebration of the furry
little creatures.
77. LANDING AREA – HAD ABBADON
The ramp of the Imperial shuttle lowers, and Imperial troops line up
outside the spacecraft. A captain of the Royal Guard, and about a
dozen of his men march up to the shuttle as six stormtroopers escort
the heavily bound young Jedi down the ramp. The officer speaks to
one of the stormtroopers.
GUARD OFFICER Did he give you much trouble?
STORMTROOPER None at all.
The guard officer studies Luke closely.
GUARD OFFICER He appears to be in good condition. The Emperor
will be pleased. Take him.
The sergeant of the guard barks a command and all of the troops turn
and march into the massive Imperial palace of Had Abbadon.
78. MAIN HALLWAY – IMPERIAL PALACE – HAD ABBADON
Luke and his escort follow the officer down a vast hallway lined with
Royal Guards. A group of star fleet captains stop their conversation
and watch the prisoner as he passes. The captains recognize Luke
and whisper among themselves until the squad of guards is far in the
distance.
1ST CAPTAIN I’m sure it’s him.
2ND CAPTAIN Inform Lord Vader.
79. THRONE ROOM – HAD ABBADON
They enter a vast throne room, and stop. The guards line up behind
Luke and snap to attention. On the far side of the room is a long, wide
flight of stairs that leads to a throne that is silhouetted by a huge
window behind it.
Sitting on the throne is a small, shrouded figure. This is the Emperor.
Supreme Ruler of the Galactic Empire, and Master of the Dark Side
of the Force. His voice echoes through the huge throne room.
EMPEROR Come forward, young Jedi.
Luke walks forward until he is at the foot of the stairs then stops,
trying to get a look at the silhouetted figure on the throne.
EMPEROR Yes, you are much like your father. Strong with the Force.
You will make a powerful ally.
LUKE You cannot turn me to the Dark Side you did my father…
EMPEROR I did not turn him to the Dark Side. That is something he
did for himself…as you will do for yourself.
LUKE Never!
EMPEROR We will see. Take him to the tombs.
The guards rush up behind Luke and escort him away.
80. EXT. FOREST LANDING SIGHT – TRANSPORT
The transport is deserted, and the clearing appears tranquil as Han,
Chewie and the robots survey the situation from a hiding place in the
dense underbrush. Han takes out his com-link.
THREEPIO Looks peaceful enough.
HAN (into com-link) Blue Two, this is Red One. Do you copy?
VOICE (on com-link) Loud and clear. What are you doing here?
HAN Just waiting for your confirmation. Is Leia with you?
VOICE (on com-link) Sure enough. She’s in the back.
HAN Let’s go!
Before he can get up, he is stopped by Chewie who barks his
concern.
HAN Well, it seems all right to me.
Han gets up and starts into the clearing, closely followed by Chewie
and the others. They arrive at the main hatch of the Imperial
transport, and Han stops Chewie.
HAN Let me go first. Wait here.
Chewie shrugs as Han cautiously enters the transport hold.
81. INT. TRANSPORT HOLD
The vast hold is empty, except for a couple of Rebel speeders. He
starts to walk toward the speeders, when two Imperial scouts come
up behind him with their guns drawn.
SCOUT #3 That’s far enough! Rebel scum.
Han freezes. Outside, laser blasts and a lot of yelling can be heard.
Threepio can barely be heard in the distance.
THREEPIO Captain Solo, it’s a trap!
SCOUT #3 Now turn around.
Han turns in a split second, draws his gun and blasts the two Imperial
scouts before they can fire.
82. EXT. FOREST LANDING SIGHT – TRANSPORT
The clearing is chaos as Han exits the transport. Imperial scouts are
blasting away at Chewie and the robots who are hidden behind some
trees on the far side of the clearing. The scouts have their back to the
transport.
HAN Chewie, run for it!!!
Several of the scouts turn toward Han, but are blasted away by the
smuggler before they can fire. Chewie and the robots dash into the
underbrush. The scouts are unable to follow them, because their
attention has been focused on Han who is firing away at them. They
scramble for cover as a monstrous two-legged walker enters the
clearing and starts firing at Han, causing huge explosions all around
him. He makes a break for the trees, but is cut off by an explosion.
Han dives for cover under the landing gear of the transport. As the
giant walker moves in on him, he makes another dash for the woods,
and this time he makes it. Han races through the trees as the sounds
of the huge walker’s feet pound behind him.
83. EXT. RAIN FOREST MOON
Han and Chewie are huffing and puffing as they meet up near a large
tree. In the distance, the robots can be heard coming through the
foliage. Chewie barks.
HAN I think we lost them, Chewie.
The robots make their way out of the underbrush. Artoo beeps.
THREEPIO (to Han) Artoo’s sensor indicates the walker is moving
away from us.
HAN This turned into a bigger mess than I expected. We’ve got to
find that ion cannon. Leia’s sure to be there, if she hasn’t been
captured.
Threepio notices a stick in the ground next to Artoo, with several
shanks of raw meat hanging from it.
THREEPIO Hello, what’s this? It looks like someone’s dinner.
Han and Chewie go over to see what it is they’ve found. Chewie
reaches for one of the meat shanks.
HAN No wait!! Don’t touch it -
But it is too late, the hungry Wookiee has already pulled one of the
pieces of meat off of the stick. A loud “sproing” is heard and the group
finds itself hanging upside down in an Ewok net, suspended high
above the clearing. Artoo lets out a screech and Chewie barks.
HAN Chewie, someday that stomach of yours is gonna do us in…
84. VADER’S PRIVATE CHAMBER – STAR DESTROYER
The door to the private chamber slides open, and the Dark Lord of
the Sith storms into the room. His voice echoes through the chamber.
VADER Jerjerrod!
JERJERROD (V.O.) It is not necessary to shout, my old friend.
VADER What is the Emperor doing with my son…
JERJERROD My Lord Vader, the Emperor does not have to answer
to you… besides, I don’t believe he has your son. Where did you
come by this piece of erroneous information?
VADER He’s been seen at the palace…and that’s where I’m going!
JERJERROD The Emperor would prefer you didn’t…you would go
against his wishes. The Rebel attack is about to begin. You are truly
fearless, my old friend.
Vader lifts the Grand Moff by the neck and begins to lift him off the
ground with one hand; Jerjerrod gasps for air and struggles to free
himself from the Dark Lord’s iron grip.
VADER You are not my friend, bureaucrat. I will go to the palace, but
you will not live to see it. I no longer wish to be annoyed by your
simpering ways.
JERJERROD The Emperor will destroy you for this.
Vader snaps the man’s neck, and he drops to the floor in a heap.
VADER I think not…your importance has been greatly exaggerated.
Vader exits the room, and the door slams shut behind him.
85. EXT. SPACE – REBEL FLEET
The vast Rebel fleet stretches out as far as the eye can see.
Overhead, a dozen CORELLIAN small BATTLESHIPS fly in
formation over the fleet. Fighters and battle cruisers surround the
largest of the Rebel Starships; the mammoth HEADQUARTERS
FRIGATE.
86: INT. WAR ROOM – HEADQUARTERS FRIGATE
Hundreds of Rebel commanders of all races and kinds sit on
bleachers in a circle to one side of the war room. In the center of the
bleacher area is a hologram model of Had Abbadon, the sanctuary
moon and the Death Stars. Standing in the center is General Madine
and ADMIRAL ACKBAR.
On a raised area in front of the bleachers are MON MOTHMA, the
Leader of the Alliance and several senators. Mon Mothma is a stern,
but beautiful woman in her fifties. Lando sits on the bleachers with the
other Rebel commanders.
GENERAL MADINE The Corellian fleet has just arrived. All units are
now in position and accounted for. The attack can begin!
There is a cheer from the Commanders. Admiral Ackbar, a pale blue
non-human CREATURE, moves to the center of the stage. He
speaks in an unusual language that is translated, by a computer, and
transmitted to the commanders’ headphones.
ADMIRAL ACKBAR You have all been briefed on your targets. Green
Group will attack the Death Stars…Red Group will attack Had
Abbadon…Blue Group will attack the Imperial fleet, here and the
planet’s surface, here and here. If the Empire is to fall, all of the
objectives must be destroyed.
GENERAL MADINE There will be no second chance. The
expeditionary unit on the sanctuary moon will signal when they have
targeted the main shield generator. If they are unsuccessful, and the
energy shield is still in place around the Death Stars when the attack
begins…well…do the best you can.
A murmur runs through the assembly; which is hushed when Mon
Mothma stands. She slowly looks over the Rebel commanders before
she speaks.
MON MOTHMA We ask much of you. The fate of the Alliance rests in
this one decisive battle. But, if the Death Stars are completed, many
of our homelands will be destroyed and the Alliance will crumble…we
have nothing to lose, and everything to gain. The time has come to
stop hiding and face the Empire one to one…Man your ships with
fortitude and resolve, for good shall triumph. May the Force be with
you.
87. EXT. RAIN FOREST – MOON
Han, Chewie and the robots are still hanging in the Ewok trap. The
Star Captain and the Wookiee are attempting to saw through the top
of the net with small pieces of metal. Artoo is cutting away at the
bottom of the net.
HAN This is going to take forever.
Suddenly, Artoo cuts through, and the entire group tumbles out of the
net, crashing to the ground. As Han regains his senses and sits up,
he realizes they are surrounded by about twenty Ewoks, pointing long
spears at them.
HAN Point that thing somewhere else!
Han pushes the spear out of his face, and a second Ewok lunges at
him. Han manages to deflect the oncoming spear, but his arm is cut
rather severely. Wicket rushes forward and pushes his fellow Ewok
away, scolding him with a lot of loud screeching and yelling. Han is
holding his arm in pain. Chewie growls at the Ewoks. Artoo and
Threepio are tangled up in what’s left of the net.
HAN Threepio, can you understand this gibberish?
Threepio untangles himself from the net and sits up, still a little
rattled.
THREEPIO Oh, my head…
When the Ewoks see Threepio, they let out a gasp and mumble
among themselves. Threepio speaks to them in their native tongue,
and one of the Ewoks nearest to the golden robot drops his spear
and bows on his hands and knees. In a moment, all of the other
Ewoks have followed suit. Chewie lets out a puzzled bark. Han looks
around at the prostrate creatures in wonder. The Ewoks begin to
chant at Threepio.
HAN What did you say to them?
THREEPIO Hello, I think…I could be wrong, they’re using a very
primitive dialect, but I believe they think I’m some sort of deity.
Artoo and Chewbacca both laugh at this. Han shakes his head in
disbelief.
HAN Well, use your divine influence to get us out of this…
THREEPIO I beg your pardon, Sir, but that wouldn’t be proper.
HAN Wouldn’t be proper?!?
THREEPIO It’s against my programming.
HAN Listen, you bend the rules a little, or I’m going to bend you!
Several Ewok spears are thrust in Captain Solo’s face as he grabs for
Threepio.
88. HAD ABBADON – THE TOMB’S PRISON
Luke lies unconscious on a small island in the middle of a hot lava
lake. A hot wind blows across his face and wakes him. He looks
around at his hostile surroundings and suddenly becomes aware of
another person sitting behind him. He turns on the intruder with Jedi
speed. The shrouded figure doesn’t move or even look up.
LUKE Ben…
Slowly, the hooded figure looks up, revealing his face. It is Ben
Kenobi in the flesh.
BEN I could no longer stay in the netherworld.
LUKE But Yoda said…
BEN …that I would become one with the Force and choose not to
return to the material world? That your anger prevented me from…
LUKE But I’m not angry…not anymore…I understand why you didn’t
tell me about my father. I do.
BEN I know. And I am here to help you destroy the Emperor,
and…your father.
LUKE I can’t.
Suddenly Yoda appears beside Ben.
YODA You can and you will…I in the netherworld, and Obi-Wan at
your side. Help you we will.
89. EXT. SPACE – REBEL FLEET
A vast array of mighty Rebel Star Cruisers move through the
heavens, surrounded by hundreds of tiny fighters of all types.
90. INT. REBEL CRUISER – BRIDGE
Captain New and Lando sit above the main control deck of the Rebel
Cruiser.
CAPTAIN NEW Admiral Ackbar is bringing the third fleet into position.
LANDO Are the light speed coordinates set?
CAPTAIN NEW Yes, Sir.
LANDO Have Red Group move their ships further out. We can’t
afford any collisions on re-entry.
Captain New repeats into the com-link.
CAPTAIN NEW Back off, Red Group. (to Lando) How long do you
think we’re going to have to wait out here?
LANDO Leia missed her scheduled check-in. So all we can do is
hope it won’t be long.
91. INT. CAVE – EWOK VILLAGE
A long procession of Ewoks winds its’ way toward the village square.
Han is tied to a long pole and is wrapped in vines, cocoon-like. The
pole is carried on the shoulders of eight Ewoks, and are followed by
Chewie and Artoo tied up in a similar fashion. Behind the captives,
Threepio is carried on a litter Emperor-style, on the shoulders of ten
Ewoks.
When they reach the village square, Han, Chewie and Artoo are
placed on large spits over what looks like a barbeque pit. Logray
comes out of one of the huts and slowly walks to the raised area
where they have set down Threepio in his litter. The medicine man
stands before the golden droid, studying him very carefully. Han and
Chewie begin to look a little worried as Ewoks start to put firewood in
the pit below them.
HAN Threepio, they’re going to barbeque us unless you do
something!
Threepio stands, and says something in the Ewok tongue. Logray
gasps and falls to his hands and knees chanting a prayer. The rest of
the Ewoks do the same. Threepio asks the Ewoks to stand and as
they do, he walks through the crowd of funny little creatures, and
stands before Han. He says something to Logray, pointing at his
friends tied to the stakes. The medicine man replies in a most
animated way. He appears to be a little upset by what the golden
droid has told him.
HAN Well, what’d they say?
THREEPIO I’m rather embarrassed, Sir, but it appears you are to be
the main course at a banquet in my honor. He is quite offended that I
should suggest otherwise…
Chewie barks angrily at Threepio.
HAN You said it, Chewie, and tell them you’ll do more than offend
them if they don’t do as you say. Tell them you have the power to
make this place cave in, or something.
THREEPIO Oh, I couldn’t do that Captain Solo, what if they asked me
to prove it! Let me see if I can’t persuade them another way.
Threepio turns to Logray and carries on a rather long-winded
conversation with the medicine man. The Ewok answers the droid
and then goes over to Han, poking him in several places. He then
moves over to Chewie, poking the growling Wookiee also, and finally
he goes over to Artoo and taps his metal hide two or three times.
Logray orders the Ewoks to untie the little astro droid, which they do,
sending him crashing to the ground with a scream.
THREEPIO Careful, careful, I mean…
He continues in the Ewok tongue as the furry creatures stand Artoo
upright. The little droid is angry and beeps a blue streak at Teebo,
causing him to back up in fear. Artoo continues to pursue the Ewok
with angry whistles and beeps. Finally, Artoo zaps the Ewok with an
electric charge and Teebo turns running into one of the huts,
screaming.
THREEPIO Artoo, stop that! You’re only going to make things worse.
Artoo beeps angry chatter at the taller droid.
THREEPIO I beg your pardon? I have no intention of taking orders
from you!
The stubby little droid has moved under Han and starts to cut him
loose. The Ewoks become upset and start for Han and Artoo. The
little droid lets out a loud screech and turns on the Ewoks, still angry,
and whistles at them. They scatter in all directions as the little droid
chases one of them around in circles.
Threepio raises his hands and shouts at the Ewoks in their squealing
language. He resembles an evangelist saving his children. The
Ewoks fall to the ground, in homage to the golden droid. Threepio
points to several Ewoks and barks a command. The Ewoks rush to
untie Han and Chewbacca, as Artoo scolds and advises them. The
two prisoners are cut loose and drop to the ground in a heap.
92. INT. CHIEF’S HUT
Wicket, Teebo, Logray and several other Ewoks enter the chief’s hut,
followed by Threepio and several more Ewoks. On the far side of the
hut sits Chief Chirpa and the village elders. To one side of this group
stands Leia, wearing an animal skin dress. She sees Threepio and
rushes over to him, but is stopped by Ewok guards.
LEIA Threepio!
THREEPIO Mistress Leia?
LEIA AND THREEPIO (together) What are you doing here??
Leia looks past the golden robot and sees Han and Chewie enter the
hut, surrounded by Ewoks. Han sees her at the same time. Leia runs
to the dashing Star Captain and throws her arms around him. He
swings her around in an embrace. Artoo finally trundles into the hut
and begins to whistle a happy tune.
LEIA Han, you escaped, you’re alive!
HAN If you call this living. Who are these friends of yours anyway?
LEIA I don’t know. I haven’t had much success communicating with
them. They’re friendly enough, but they won’t let me leave.
Threepio is sitting on Chief Chirpa’s throne, and all the Ewoks,
including the Chief and Logray, bow down before him. The Ewok
guards poke at Han, Leia and Chewie, causing them to kneel also.
Han refuses to kneel.
HAN You’re crazy if you think I’m…
He is jabbed with one of the sharp spears and immediately sits down.
HAN All right. All right… Threepio, you’d better tell them why we’re
here, and quick… (to Leia) They think he’s the creator or
something…
LEIA Maybe he can convince them how important it is for us to leave.
Threepio stands and begins a long animated speech in the Ewoks’
native tongue. The Ewok elders, Chief and medicine man sit around
the fire listening to Threepio speak in their squeaky language. He
points several times to Han and company, then pantomimes an
Imperial walker, then makes a crude sound that signifies an
explosion. The Ewoks stare at Han and Leia and mumble among
themselves. Logray confers with the Chief, then asks Threepio a
question. The golden droid answers, and the Ewok Chief starts to
shake his head in a negative fashion.
Wicket can contain himself no longer, stands up and makes a rather
fiery speech. The Chief and elders nod in agreement. The Chief
stands and makes a pronouncement pointing at Wicket, then at
Threepio, then finally at Han and company.
Suddenly, all the Ewoks jump up with a great yip and cheer. Several
of the little teddy bears run up and hug Han, Leia and Chewie. One
starts to hug Artoo, but thinks better of it as the little droid backs off
with a low warning rumble. Han pulls one of the clinging Ewoks from
around his neck, and sets the funny little creature on the ground,
giving him a light pat on the head.
THREEPIO You are now a part of the tribe. They welcome your
efforts to kill the giant walkers and they will give you what they can…
HAN Great! We’ll need supplies and two of their best warriors to
guide us to that ion cannon.
LEIA Let’s just hope the Empire hasn’t gotten there first.
93. INT. REBEL CRUISER – MAIN BRIDGE
A hologram of a Rebel officer appears before Lando and the cruiser
captain.
HOLOGRAM OFFICER Commander, the fleet has been spotted by
an Imperial Star Destroyer. We are currently in pursuit…
The hologram fades off.
CAPTAIN That finishes it; we can’t stay out here much longer.
A second hologram appears. It is the Admiral.
ADMIRAL All commands will hold their position. The Empire will need
a sizable fleet to attack us, and I doubt if they will discover our target,
so we still have a bit more time. Sit tight.
LANDO If we don’t get that signal soon, I’m going to begin to think
that they didn’t make it. They’re probably just trying to make us
nervous.
CAPTAIN Well, they’ve succeeded.
94. EXT. CAVE ENTRANCE – FOREST
Han swings from the cave entrance to the rickety footbridge where
Leia, Threepio and Artoo are waiting for Teebo. Chewie waits with
Wicket in the cave entrance for his turn to swing across.
HAN Threepio, you and Artoo are going to have to make your way
back to the Millenium Falcon and signal the fleet to attack…
Chewie swings across and lands with a gleeful bark.
HAN You’d better take one of these fuzzies with you and be careful.
You might run into one of those patrols.
LEIA We should have signaled some time ago, so hurry.
Artoo, Threepio, and Teebo hurry off across the shaky wooden
walkway.
95. EXT. LANDING AREA – HAD ABBADON
The Imperial shuttle lands on the windswept platform of Had
Abbadon. TIE Fighters fly overhead as the boarding ramp lowers and
Lord Vader descends to the flight deck. He walks alone toward the
Imperial palace.
96. INT. MAIN HALLWAY TO THRONE ROOM
Vader’s footsteps echo through the vast, long hallway. The Royal
Guards that line the walls watch him with great fear. Finally he
reaches the massive doors that open on to the throne room. The two
guards on either side of the doors move to block the Dark Lord.
1ST GUARD I’m sorry Lord Vader, the Emperor does not wish…
Both of the guards are stopped in their tracks as they drop their
weapons and grab for their throats in a vain attempt to breathe. They
drop gasping to the floor as the giant doors slide open and the Dark
Lord enters the Emperor’s chamber.
97. INT. THRONE ROOM – HAD ABBADON
Vader storms into the throne room and marches right up to where the
Emperor is sitting. The Emperor slowly raises his head to stare at the
Dark Lord.
VADER Where is he?
EMPEROR Safe…There is no need for you to worry. I will take good
care of him…
VADER It is for me to train my son…you must…
The Emperor raises his hand, and Vader’s breathing suddenly stops.
The Dark Lord struggles at his controls, attempting to regain his air
supply. He chokes.
EMPEROR You forget yourself…Lord Vader. I will tolerate no more
discussion on the subject. The boy is mine to train. Your place is with
the fleet.
Vader collapses on the floor and the Emperor lowers his hand. Vader
starts breathing again and rises to a kneeling position.
VADER Forgive me, master.
EMPEROR The Rebels will soon begin their attack. You must be
ready for them. For now that I have all of them in one place, they will
be crushed once and for all.
VADER Yes, my master.
EMPEROR Now take your leave, for I have your son to attend to.
Vader rises and exits the throne room, and the giant door slides
closed behind him.
98. EXT. REBEL FLEET – SPACE
The vast Rebel fleet drifts through space.
99. INT. REBEL CRUISER – COCKPIT
The tension mounts as the crew waits for the signal to attack. The
moments tick by, and Lando raps his fingers on the console. He looks
worried, and speaks into the com-link.
LANDO Admiral, I don’t think we can wait much longer out here. That
Imperial destroyer should have returned with reinforcements by now.
Something’s funny…I’ll bet they know what we’re after and are just
waiting for us to move…
ADMIRAL (V.O.) That’s possible, but if we go in and that shield is up,
we won’t stand a chance…! We’ll wait a little longer.
Lando clicks off the intercom and turns to the captain.
LANDO I have a bad feeling about this. I hope we get that signal
soon.
He lapses back into his preoccupied worried look.
100. EXT. MILLENIUM FALCON – LANDING SITE
The Falcon is surrounded by a half dozen Imperial rocket bikes.
Threepio, Artoo and the little Ewok Teebo are hidden in the foliage.
The stubby little droid beeps and whistles.
THREEPIO Don’t ask me what to do! You think of something. I’m not
designed for this sort of thing.
Teebo chatters something and Threepio barks a question, which the
Ewok quickly answers. The golden droid chatters his approval, and
Teebo takes off into the underbrush.
THREEPIO He’s going to distract them so that we can sneak inside.
Artoo beeps a question.
THREEPIO I don’t know, but he says it’s something that he has
wanted to do for a long time. I hope it works.
All of the scouts are inside the Falcon except one, who is leaning
against the hatchway sound asleep. The little Ewok darts out of the
foliage on the far side of the Falcon, and hides behind one of the
giant landing gears. Teebo can hear the troops moving around inside
the ship.
101. INT. FALCON – HOLD
Several of the Imperial scouts lounge around as the others go
through the storage compartments, throwing things on the floor of the
hold.
102. INT. FALCON – COCKPIT
A scout moves about the cockpit, flipping switches and searching
everywhere. Finding nothing, he exits the cockpit, just as a light starts
flashing on the main control panel. A faint voice can be heard on the
com-link.
VOICE Threepio? Threepio?
103. EXT. FOREST – GUN EMPLACEMENT
Han, Chewie, Wicket and Leia are hidden in the trees overlooking the
ion cannon. The control bunker is swarming with Imperial troops and
two scout walkers patrol the clearing in front of the gun. Chewie
quietly growls at Han who is speaking into a com-link.
HAN …come in, Threepio…blast it! You’re right Chewie, we should
have given them a com-link.
LEIA I hope they’re not in trouble.
HAN Not as much as we are anyway. With any luck, they won’t be
able to signal the fleet until we clean up this little mess.
LEIA How are we going to get in there?
HAN I don’t know! This whole thing was your idea, you tell me!
Leia shrugs her shoulders and lets out a great sigh.
104. EXT. MILLENIUM FALCON – LANDING SITE
Teebo crawls between several of the rocket bikes to the snoring
sounds of the sleeping guard. The little Ewok struggles up onto the
seat of one of the powerful rocket bikes. The scout momentarily
wakes up, which stops his snoring. Teebo freezes. The scout goes
back to sleep, and the little Ewok gives the control panel of the rocket
bike a puzzled look. He scratches his head, chattering to himself, and
then with a shrug, he starts flipping switches.
Artoo whistles in hushed tones, as he and Threepio watch the Ewok
on the bike.
THREEPIO I have no idea what he’s up to…quite frankly, I don’t think
he knows what he’s doing. He’d better be careful or he’ll hurt himself.
Artoo beeps a question.
THREEPIO I don’t know why I listened to him either.
Teebo pulls a little lever on the side of the bike, and the machine
comes to life with a roar. The scout wakes up with a start as the little
Ewok screams and shoots out of the clearing on the rocket bike,
holding on for dear life. The scout shouts an alarm and, firing at
Teebo, runs for his own bike. The other five scouts rush out of the
Falcon to see what the commotion is all about. The scout on the bike
yells at the others as he races out of the clearing after the stolen bike.
1ST SCOUT He took the bike!
The rest of the scouts jump on their bikes and take off after the Ewok,
leaving the scout whose bike was stolen behind. In anger, he throws
a container to the ground and wanders back inside the Falcon.
Threepio and Artoo watch all of this from their hiding place. Artoo
beeps a statement and starts for the Falcon. Threepio reluctantly
follows.
THREEPIO I can’t believe I’m doing this. I must be malfunctioning.
105. INT. HOLD – MILLENIUM FALCON
The scout continues to rummage through cabinets in the hold of the
Falcon as Artoo and Threepio slip by in the background, heading for
the cockpit.
106. INT. COCKPIT – FALCON
Threepio and Artoo enter the cockpit.
THREEPIO Hurry, Artoo, before we’re discovered!
Artoo plugs into a computer socket and beeps a message. A series of
tones is heard, then the stubby droid whistles a few words and exits
the cockpit with Threepio following.
107. INT. HOLD – MILLENIUM FALCON
Threepio peeks around the corner to see the scout standing quite
near him. He ducks back into the hallway, and whispers to Artoo.
THREEPIO We’re trapped.
108. INT. REBEL CRUISER – MAIN BRIDGE
The control panel lights up as Artoo’s signal is received by the Rebel
fleet. A hologram of the Admiral appears before Lando and the
cruiser captain.
ADMIRAL We have just received the confirmation signal. All ships will
prepare to move into light speed.
LANDO They did it! They’ve blown up the shield generator. Come on,
let’s get this bucket moving!
The controller pulls back on the light speed throttle, and the stars
streak and disappear out the bridge window.
109. EXT. FOREST – LANDING SITE
Teebo stumbles out of the forest and into the clearing in front of the
Falcon. The little Ewok is pretty beaten up and appears to be in
shock. He lets out a loud howl.
110. INT. FALCON – HOLD
The scout runs out of the hold and starts down the boarding ramp
with his gun drawn. Artoo tears out after him, with Threepio following.
THREEPIO Wait, Artoo, what are you doing?
The scout stands at the foot of the ramp with his gun pointed at
Teebo. But before he can fire, Artoo comes flying down the ramp and
plows into him, knocking the Imperial scout head over heels. The
laser pistol fires harmlessly in the air. Threepio rushes past the fallen
Imperial trooper and follows Artoo and Teebo into the dense
underbrush.
111. INT. HAD ABBADON – HALLWAY TO THRONE ROOM
The huge doors to the throne room slide open and the Emperor
strides into the long hallway. The Royal Guards snap to attention as
he passes. About halfway down the hallway, an Imperial General
rushes up to the Emperor, and bows.
GENERAL My Lord, the Rebels have moved into hyperspace. The
attack is imminent.
EMPEROR. Excellent. Alert the fleet!
The general rushes off, and the Emperor continues until he arrives at
a large stone room flanked by rows of elevators. He enters one of the
elevators and it descends into a vast steaming pit. Out of the
shadows of a large column, a large dark figure emerges…it is Darth
Vader. He raises his hand and the guards turn away, allowing him to
sneak into one of the elevators and follow the Emperor.
112. INT. HAD ABBADON – TOMB’S DUNGEON
Luke stands with a start and begins to look around. Ben slowly stands
also.
LUKE Did you feel that?
BEN Yes. It’s the Emperor. He’s moving this way…
LUKE …and so is my father.
BEN He is following the Emperor. Yoda!
YODA’S VOICE I am between them and the Force…cloud their
minds, I will.
BEN Luke, you must take them on one at a time. Together, they will
destroy you…
The Emperor enters the cavern and looks across to the boiling lava
lake. He sees Ben and is surprised.
EMPEROR So you are not dead after all, Obi-Wan. I thought I felt
your presence in the netherworld. So, you have returned. But you
have failed…the boy is mine, and will soon embrace the Dark Side.
YODA It is you who have failed, my old friend.
The Emperor turns around to see the shimmering image of Yoda
standing before him.
EMPEROR You!
YODA Evil one, this will be the last day of your existence.
EMPEROR Your presence in the netherworld can do me no harm.
And neither can this boy or this old man.
YODA Your fear is strong…overestimate your abilities, you do.
Vader steps out of the shadows and stands next to the Emperor.
VADER My Master, they must be destroyed. Now it is too late to turn
the boy.
Luke looks at his father, then reaches out and Vader’s lasersword
leaps off the Dark Lord’s belt and into the young Jedi’s hand. Luke
ignites the lasersword as the Emperor pulls a sword out of his sleeve
and tosses it to Vader.
EMPEROR Destroy them.
Vader’s sword ignites and he starts to move toward his son. Luke
backs away.
113. EXT. FOREST – GUN EMPLACEMENT
Wicket chatters and pulls on Han Solo’s arm, trying to get him to
move away.
HAN Don’t bother me. Go away.
LEIA I think he’s trying to tell you something.
Wicket points to the top of a tall tree, then makes a diving motion
down to the walker.
HAN You mean jump?!?
Han makes a motion with his hand and the little Ewok shakes his
head yes.
Han looks up at the tree, then down at the walker.
HAN It’s too far, forget it.
A small com-link on Leia’s belt begins to buzz.
LEIA The fleet! They’re attacking!
HAN That doesn’t give us much time. Come on…
114. EXT. SPACE – REBEL FLEET
The massive Rebel fleet moves toward the distant planet of Had
Abbadon.
115. INT. REBEL CRUISER – BRIDGE
Lando moves over to one of the computer screens, then turns back to
the Cruiser Captain.
LANDO Have group seven and nine split off and start phase two…
CAPTAIN Several Imperial cruisers are approaching!
LANDO Launch the fighters!
116. EXT. SPACE – REBEL CRUISER
A group of X-Wing Fighters are dropped out of the main hold, and
rocket off toward the approaching Imperial Cruisers. Behind the
Imperial warships, the two Death Stars orbit Had Abbadon. The
Rebel fighters attack the Imperial Cruisers and the fighting is intense.
117. EXT. FOREST – GUN EMPLACEMENT
Artoo, Threepio and Teebo make their way onto a ridge overlooking
the gun emplacement. Artoo beeps and whistles as he spots Han and
Leia.
THREEPIO I see them! Come on, they need help!
He turns to Teebo and explains this to him. He repeats the Ewok
word for help, then grabs a shell horn at his side and blows. A loud
howl echoes throughout the forest. All of the Stormtroopers below
look up. So does Han, Leia and Wicket. Wicket starts to chatter
excitedly and points to the droids.
HAN Now what?
LEIA It’s Artoo and Threepio.
HAN Did they have to announce their arrival? Look out!
Laser blasts start to explode all around them as the Stormtroopers
discover their presence. They attempt to return the fire, but are
quickly surrounded. Chewie barks his anger as the troops take away
their weapons.
HAN Wait till I get my hands on those droids!
118. EXT. SPACE – BATTLE
A fierce battle rages as the Rebel cruisers attempt to move past the
Imperial ships and strike at the Death Stars. One of the Rebel ships
makes it through and starts its attack on one of the uncompleted
battle stations, but the laser bolts fail to reach their target.
119. INT. REBEL CRUISER
Lando moves forward to the main viewing port as the surface of the
giant Death Star races by. He turns to the cruiser Captain.
LANDO The deflector shield is still up. They haven’t knocked out the
shield generator.
CAPTAIN Even if more of our ships break through, they won’t be able
to damage the Death Stars.
A huge blast rocks the ship.
CONTROLLER Two Star Destroyers are coming in!
LANDO There won’t be anything left of us if those shield generators
aren’t destroyed real quick.
120. INT. HAD ABBADON – TOMB’S DUNGEON
Vader brings his lasersword down hard on his son, but Luke is able to
block his father’s blow. A quick sword exchange, and Luke forces
Vader back. Another exchange, and the Dark Lord recovers, pushing
the young Jedi onto a small rock surrounded by the bubbling pool of
lava. Ben and the Emperor watch from the far side of the cavern.
EMPEROR He is every inch his father.
BEN He is stronger than you imagine, and has many allies.
EMPEROR Allies? If they are all as you, I have no concern. Once the
boy has killed his father, I will have him destroy you…
BEN Perhaps, but it will not save you. I have foreseen your death at
the hands of Skywalker.
EMPEROR But I have not, therefore it cannot be.
BEN Unless you can no longer see…
Luke fights back with all of his strength and drives his father back
across the tiny rocks. A crashing blow by Luke causes Vader to lose
his balance and fall onto one of the small rock islands, his sword
hand landing in the molten lava. His sword and part of his metal are
melting away. Vader backs away from his son, expecting the death
blow at any moment. But Luke hesitates as Ben and the Emperor
watch.
EMPEROR Finish it, boy! It is the power of the Dark Side that you
feel…
Luke lowers his lasersword.
LUKE I cannot. I will not turn to the Dark Side. I only fight in selfdefense,
not to do your Emperor’s bidding.
With that, Luke extinguishes the lasersword and tosses it to Ben.
LUKE If he is to be destroyed, you must do it.
121. EXT. FOREST – GUN EMPLACEMENT
Han, Chewie, Wicket and Leia are led to an area in front of the
control bunker. Several Stormtroopers rush up the ridge to where
Artoo and Threepio were last seen. They look around for traces of
where they might have gone. A familiar whistle is heard coming from
behind a large tree. The Stormtroopers move over to investigate.
They surround the two droids.
THREEPIO Hello.
Suddenly, out of the trees swing a horde of Ewoks, yelling and
screaming as they land on the troops from behind, stabbing them with
their spears. Several of the Ewoks heave a huge boulder from high in
the trees; which lands with a loud thud on the walker’s head, and
bounces to the ground. A second and third boulder is heaved, one of
which hits the hatch, springing it open. A half dozen Ewoks jump onto
the giant war machine and pry open the hatch, fearlessly jumping into
the machine with their spears ready.
In the confusion, Han and company break away from their captors
and join in the battle. The Ewoks cut down trees that fall on the
walkers, and sends piles of logs toward the huge machines; which
causes them to slip and fall. Han climbs a tree and swings down on
one of the walkers. He blasts open the hatch and subdues the walker
pilot. Chewie and Wicket swing onto another walker.
Leia, Chief Chirpa and the other Ewoks charge the entrance to the
control bunker, but the alert Imperial troops manage to close the blast
door shutting out the Ewoks, as well as many of the Imperial scouts.
The Rebels become pinned down in front of the door.
LEIA We’ve got to get in there fast! They’ll be calling in
reinforcements!
Chief Chirpa chatters away, not understanding what the Princess is
saying.
122. INT. WALKER – COCKPIT
Han works the controls of the giant walker, and it begins to move
forward chasing the Imperial troops into the safety of the forest. Han
fires a large bolt at the retreating troops. A voice comes over the
com-link.
LEIA Bring the walker over by the door, we need some help!
HAN Hang on, I’m on my way!
123. INT. SECOND WALKER – COCKPIT
Chewie operates the controls of another walker as Wicket imitates
him on another control panel. The little Ewok flips a switch and the
cockpit lurches to one side. Chewie lets out a growl and bats the little
creature’s hands. Wicket lets out a squeal and jumps away from the
control panel. Out the cockpit window, Imperial troops fire at the
walker as it advances on them.
124. EXT. SPACE – DEATH STARS – REBEL STARSHIP
Rebel cruisers dive on the Death Stars, blasting away with all of the
firepower available. A huge Imperial Star Destroyer moves into the
conflict and blasts one of the Rebel cruisers away. It then moves to
blast a second Rebel cruiser, and then another.
125. INT. REBEL CRUISER – BRIDGE
The bridge is rocked by laser blasts. Lando watches the battle out the
main viewing port as the Captain approaches him.
CAPTAIN Several Star Destroyers have moved in from the
planetside. Our cruisers are no match for theirs!
Lando bangs his fist on the control panel in frustration.
LANDO We’re too easy a target out here. There’s just no way to us to
get through that defense shield. Tell the Admiral that we’re going to
let them chase us out of the target area.
CAPTAIN If we can draw them to the far side of the planet, we can
easily outrace them back to the target.
LANDO If they don’t blast that shield generator pretty quick, we’re not
going to have enough of a strike group for it to make any difference.
I’d give anything to know what is going on down there with that gun!
126. CLEARING – GUN EMPLACEMENT
Random laser fire from the dense foliage keeps the small band of
Rebels pinned near the bunker entrance. Han and Chewie have
backed the walkers up to the heavy metal door, and the Rebels have
attached a long cable from the walker to a magnet on the door. Leia
speaks into her comlink.
LEIA We’re all set. Let them go.
At that moment, out of the foliage come several more two-legged
walkers, and about a dozen of the scout speeder bikes. They attack
the Rebels at the bunker entrance and in the captured walker. Han
and Chewie struggle to pull the bunker door.
Chewie and Wicket are having problems of their own. Two rocket
bikes circle the walker so close their own walker can’t fire on them.
The scouts blast away at the metal legs of the walker until one of the
joints collapses and the walker with the Wookiee and the Ewok goes
crashing to the ground. The two Rebels are shaken, but unhurt, and
manage to climb out of the burning machine.
Han maneuvers the walker back to the bunker door and Chewie
helps to reestablish the cable. The walker jerks forward in one last
attempt to yank the great metal door open. A loud ripping metallic
screech is heard and the entire back half of the walker falls off. Han
looks out of the gaping hole of his walker a little embarrassed. Leia
shakes her head. The fighting ends and the last of the Imperial scouts
flees into the forest.
Han takes a piece of the damaged walker and throws it down in
frustration, then gets an idea. He yells down to Leia and the
remaining Rebels.
HAN Get out of sight! Quick!
He goes over to the control panel and fiddles with the computer
readout. He begins to speak into the walker’s com-link using several
different voices, while getting information from the computer.
HAN Ah…six twenty-one bring up your reinforcements. (another
voice) This is six twenty-one, we’re moving up now…
127. INT. CONTROL BUNKER – ION CANNON
About a half-dozen Imperial scouts crows around the control panel,
listening to the com-link.
HAN (V.O.) Ahh…Commander Bough, move in with your
scouts. (another voice) Yes sir, we’ve got them on the run now…Look
at them go!
A scout officer in the bunker smiles as the men cheer.
SCOUT OFFICER They’ve got ‘em…I wish we could see out there…
HAN (V.O.) Good work. Contact Admiral….ah…Veers and tell him
the Rebel resistance is broken. The gun here is secure. (another
voice) Sir, could you have the scouts in the bunker come out here
and give us a hand cleaning up?
SCOUT OFFICER We’re on our way out now!
128. EXT. BUNKER ENTRANCE – FOREST CLEARING
The Imperial scouts rush to the opening bunker door and exit into the
glare of the sun. The scouts stop just outside the door. Puzzled, they
look around and see all the destruction, but no other Imperial troops.
They look up to see Han stick his head out of the damaged walker.
HAN Hi there.
Before the scouts can reach for their guns, they realize they are
surrounded by Ewoks. Leia rushes into the bunker. The Ewoks
proceed to tie up the Imperial troops as Han climbs down from the
walker. Artoo and Threepio make their way into the clearing.
129. INT. CONTROL BUNKER
Han and Leia rush about, getting the ion cannon ready to fire. They
watch the computer readout.
HAN It’s going to take a few moments to get the power up.
LEIA I just hope the fleet is still up there when it does.
130. INT. CRUISER – BRIDGE
There are only a few Rebel ships left, and they are racing for their
lives trying to reach the Death Stars before the Imperial Star
Destroyers. Lando plots their program on the computer display. The
Captain is with him.
LANDO Captain, focus everything on the power core. When we reach
target range, let go with everything.
CAPTAIN What if the shields are still up? All the firepower in the fleet
couldn’t penetrate it.
LANDO We’re only going to get one more shot at it. If the shields are
still up, we’ve lost.
131. INT. HAD ABBADON – TOMB’S DUNGEON
Lord Vader struggles to stand as Ben prods the Emperor onto the
same small island. Luke stands behind Ben and watches.
EMPEROR You have become old and weak, Lord Vader. I will take
care of this.
The Emperor turns his back on Vader and faces the old Jedi, raising
his hands in the air, which causes lightning to strike at Ben.
LUKE BEN, NO!
Luke leaps in front of his mentor, and raises his hand in defense. The
bolts are deflected by an invisible shield. Wherever a bolt hits, the
image of Yoda momentarily appears at the point of impact.
EMPEROR Your Master in the netherworld cannot protect you for
long. You will turn to me or die.
The lightning bolts become more intense, and Ben is knocked
unconscious. Luke drops to his knees under the pressure.
EMPEROR This is the power of the Dark Side that you deny. Your
strength will never match it.
Luke struggles to remain conscious against the superior power of the
Emperor.
LUKE Yoda…
EMPEROR Obi-Wan foresaw my destruction at your hands, young
Skywalker, but it seems his vision was clouded…Perhaps there is still
another Skywalker. Why can I not see, could the netherworld have
influenced my perception? Another Skywalker…your father!
The Emperor turns around to see Lord Vader flying at him. The
lightning bolts around Luke disappear as Vader hits the Emperor,
knocking them both into the fiery lake of lava. The hideous screams
of the Emperor are soon muted. Luke struggles to his feet and stares
at the spot where his enemy and his father disappeared into the
cauldron of molten rock.
Ben puts his hand on the young Jedi’s shoulder.
BEN It is in Yoda’s hands now.
["In the rough draft…Ben explains that…if Vader becomes one with
the dark side of the Force, he will lose all identity. If he turns to the
good side, he will pass through the Netherworld and" in the revised
rough draft, Yoda "will rescue him before he becomes one with the
Force." -L. Bouzerau, explanation from Star Wars The Annotated
Screenplays page 300.]
LUKE He turned back to the good side.
BEN Yes, he did.
132. INT. CONTROL BUNKER
The main computer readout in the ion cannon control bunker shows
the target entering the cross hairs.
HAN Target ready. Stand by, ion control.
LEIA Fire.
The ion cannon fires a series of powerful laser bolts at the main
shield generator. It explodes across the surface of Had Abbadon.
133. EXT. SPACE – REBEL CRUISERS – DEATH STARS
The Rebel cruisers descend on the half-constructed Death Star, firing
proton torpedoes into the center of the super-structure. There is a
series of explosions, culminating in a huge explosion that engulfs the
Death Star. In the distance, the second Death Star explodes in a
great ball of flame.
134. INT. BRIDGE – REBEL CRUISER
A great cheer goes up among the Rebels. Lando and the Cruiser
Captain congratulate each other.
135. INT. ION CANNON CONTROL BUNKER
Han lifts Leia off her feet and swings her around, laughing. Chewie
lifts Wicket high over his head. Teebo hugs Threepio, who pats him
on the head. The little Ewok then rushes over and hugs Artoo.
136. INT. HAD ABBADON – HALLWAY TO THRONE ROOM
The hallway is deserted as Luke and Ben wander, sadly thinking
about what happened. The rumble of distant explosions is heard.
BEN It is over…
137. EXT. EWOK FOREST VILLAGE – NIGHT
Ewoks and Rebels are singing, shouting and dancing around a huge
bonfire. The joyous sounds of native drums and musical instruments
echoes through the forest.
Leia and Luke walk down a forest path some distance from the
festivities. Following them are Han, Chewie and Lando and behind
them are Artoo and Threepio. Luke and Leia are talking quietly. Han
shakes his head in amazement as he watches the two.
HAN Her brother! I just can’t believe it.
They stop at the edge of the clearing where the celebration is taking
place. Leia gives her newfound brother a great big hug. They are
quickly surrounded by Ewoks and friends. Leia turns and gives Han a
big hug and passionate kiss. Everyone cheers and yells as they all
move closer to the bonfire. Sadly, Luke wanders back into the forest
alone. Leia starts to go after him, but is stopped by Han.
HAN He needs to be alone.
They turn back to the celebration.
[NEXT-TO-LAST PAGE MISSING - DETAILS IN FOLLOWING
PARAGRAPH]
["In the revised rough draft (Scene 138, Luke talks to Ben, and
then)…Yoda suddenly appears as flesh and blood. His stay in the
Netherworld has been resolved since Vader has turned to the good
side. Yoda also has been able to prevent Vader from becoming one
with the Force. Luke's father appears, and they all join the
celebration, except for Yoda, who watches them all from the side…" -
L. Bouzerau, explanation from Star Wars The Annotated Screenplays
page 320.]
139. CONTINUED
Threepio is carried on the shoulders of eight Ewoks in a litter. He is a
little confused and dismayed at all the attention he is getting. The
furry little Ewoks set the golden droid down a raised platform and bow
before him as the dancing continues. Several young female Ewoks
place a garland of flowers around Threepio’s head, and he waves at
the crowd.
Quietly watching the festivities from the side is Yoda, the Jedi Master.
He scans the crowd picking out Artoo, Threepio, Lando and Chewie,
Han and Leia, and finally Ben, Luke and his father. He lets out a great
sigh.
END CREDITS